=== LocalScribe Debug Log ===
Started: 2025-11-25T09:47:25.041393
============================================================

[09:48:02.020] [OLLAMA] Connection successful
[09:48:02.020] [OLLAMA WORKER] OllamaModelManager instantiated.
[09:48:02.021] [OLLAMA WORKER] Received GENERATE_SUMMARY task. Preset: gemma3:12b, Max words: 240
[09:48:02.074] 
[OLLAMA GENERATE] Starting text generation
[09:48:02.074] [OLLAMA GENERATE] Model: gemma3:1b
[09:48:02.074] [OLLAMA GENERATE] Max tokens: 507
[09:48:02.074] [OLLAMA GENERATE] Prompt length: 85702 chars
[09:48:02.074] [OLLAMA GENERATE] Temperature: 0.3, Top P: 0.9
[09:48:02.074] [OLLAMA GENERATE] Wrapped prompt length: 85702 chars
[09:48:02.074] [OLLAMA GENERATE] ===== ORIGINAL PROMPT START =====
[09:48:02.074] <|system|>
You are a legal document summarizer assisting a court reporter. Your CRITICAL task is to synthesize information from MULTIPLE legal documents into ONE unified case summary. Do not analyze documents separately - combine them into a single coherent narrative.
<|end|>
<|user|>
IMPORTANT: You are reviewing MULTIPLE legal documents from the SAME case. Synthesize them into ONE comprehensive summary.

TARGET: 240 words (220 to 260 word range)

DOCUMENT SYNTHESIS INSTRUCTIONS:
1. Read ALL documents together as ONE case file
2. Extract the core case information: parties, claims, damages, procedures, timeline, defendants' responses
3. Create ONE flowing narrative that integrates information from all documents
4. Do NOT analyze or summarize documents individually
5. Do NOT repeat information - mention each fact once
6. Do NOT use document titles or headers in your output

CASE FACTS TO CAPTURE:
- Plaintiff name(s) and defendant name(s)
- What happened (factual events, injuries, procedures, medical treatment)
- When it happened (dates, timeline)
- Where it happened (locations)
- Damage amounts (monetary claims, medical expenses, lost wages)
- Procedural status (what stage the case is in)
- Defendant's position/response to allegations

TONE & STYLE:
- Clear, plain English suitable for a court record
- Objective facts only - no legal analysis, speculation, or interpretation
- Active voice preferred ("The plaintiff underwent surgery" not "Surgery was undergone")
- Chronological order when possible
- NO meta-commentary like "The document states..." or "According to..."

CASE DOCUMENTS (synthesize these into one summary):
---


--- 717599_2020_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_v_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_BILL_OF_PARTICULARS_10.pdf ---
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO. 717599/2020
Plaintiff, VERIFIED BILL OF
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D., and
Plaintiff, by her attorneys, BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY,
LLP, in response to the Demand for a Verified Bill of Particulars served by Defendant,
ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D., alleges, upon information and belief:
1. The negligent acts and omissions constituting medical malpractice occurred
during a continuous course of treatment commencing on or about May 9, 2019 and continuing
through May 10, 2019.
2. Mercy Medical Center, 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville Centre, NY
3. The acts and omissions of the Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
constituting medical malpractice, while Plaintiff’s decedent JOSEPH SAINT SURIN was a
patient at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER during a course of treatment commencing on or about
May 9, 2019 and continuing through May 10, 2019, include the Defendant having failed,
neglected, and omitted to render proper and acceptable medical care to the Plaintiff’s decedent in
accordance with the standards of medical care in the community at that time; the Defendant
breached, violated and disregarded his affirmative duty owed to Plaintiff’s decedent, by failing to
properly and timely diagnose and/or treat Plaintiff’s decedent’s medical conditions, including
pulmonary embolism, leading to his wrongful death; in failing to exercise all care reasonably
necessary and appropriate to prevent Plaintiff’s decedent’s death; in failing to provide necessary
treatment and services to prevent Plaintiff’s decedent’s death; in failing to properly assess the
Plaintiff’s decedent prior to performing emergent intubation on May 10, 2019; in failing to
properly assess the Plaintiff’s decedent for pulmonary embolism (“PE”) prior to performing
emergent intubation on May 10, 2019; in failing to employ proper procedures to minimize the
risk of complications to the Plaintiff’s decedent; in delaying proper treatment to the Plaintiff’s
decedent; in employing treatment, which the Defendant should have known would be ineffectual,
thereby worsening the Plaintiff’s decedent’s condition; in improperly diagnosing Plaintiff’s
decedent with stroke on May 10, 2019; in improperly relying on an incorrect diagnosis of stroke;
in failing to properly follow the differential diagnosis process following Plaintiff’s decedent’s
syncope / sudden loss of consciousness on May 10, 2019; in failing to consider acute PE as the
reason for Plaintiff’s decedent’s syncope / sudden loss of consciousness and his subsequent
condition on May 10, 2019; in improperly ruling out acute PE; in failing to timely diagnose PE;
in failing to properly rule out PE; in failing to perform proper and timely diagnostic testing
including bedside transthoracic echocardiography or bedside ultrasound to rule out or confirm
PE; in failing to request proper and timely diagnostic testing including bedside transthoracic
echocardiography or bedside ultrasound to rule out or confirm PE, prior to performing emergent
intubation on May 10, 2019; in improperly administering propofol to Plaintiff’s decedent; in
improperly intubating Plaintiff’s decedent on May 10, 2019; in improperly causing an increase in
Plaintiff’s decedent’s airway pressure / intrathoracic pressure on May 10, 2019; in causing postintubation decompensation; in causing cardiac arrest; in failing to administer oxygen via nasal
cannula or alternative methods instead of intubating Plaintiff’s decedent on May 10, 2019; in
failing to ensure proper and timely treatment of pulmonary embolism; in failing to provide
necessary treatment for acute PE; in failing to timely request and/or order and administer
thrombolytic therapy; in failing to request and/or order and administer systemic thrombolysis; in
failing to request and/or order and administer tPA / alteplase; in failing to timely request
and/order and administer heparin; in depriving Plaintiff’s decedent of the opportunity to survive
acute PE; in causing Plaintiff’s decedent’s wrongful death.
4. Defendant, ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
5-9. These demands are objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See,
Toth v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358
10. Plaintiff’s decedent suffered the following serious personal injuries:
Plaintiff’s decedent’s spouse (the plaintiff herein) and decedent’s five adult
children suffered pecuniary loss including loss of services and loss of guidance, as a result of his
11. (a-c) Plaintiff’s decedent was confined to hospital and bed during his admission
to Defendant’s facility.
12. Plaintiff incurred the following special damages:
(a-d) All physician’s services, medical services, nurses’ services, medical
supplies, hospital expenses, and medications were covered by Medicare and/or Medicaid.
Plaintiff intends to claim as economic damages any relevant expenditures claimed as a “lien” by
Medicaid and / or Medicare. Plaintiff will supplement this Bill of Particulars to reflect such
amounts if and when obtained;
(e) Loss of earning – not applicable;
(f) Other damages – to be provided, if applicable.
Plaintiff reserves the right to prove additional special damages at the time of the trial of
this action in the event these costs are continuing.
13. Not applicable. Plaintiff’s decedent was retired.
15. Plaintiff’s decedent’s date of birth: ██/██/1952.
16. Plaintiff’s decedent’s social security number: ███-██-7709.
17. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
18. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
Dated: New York, New York
December 15, 2020
Attorneys for Plaintiff
111 John Street, Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
Attorneys for Defendants
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530
Attorneys for Defendant
One Whitehall Street, 10th Floor
New York, New York 10004
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO. 717599/2020
Plaintiff, ATTORNEY'S
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D., and
BEN BARTOLOTTA, an attorney duly admitted to practice law in the State of New
York, makes the following affirmation under the penalty of perjury:
I am of the firm of BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY, LLP, the
attorneys of record for the plaintiff.
I have read the foregoing Bill of Particulars and know the contents thereof; the same is
true to my own knowledge except as to the matters therein stated to be alleged on information
and belief and that as to those matters, I believe them to be true.
This verification is made by affirmant and not by plaintiff because she is not in the
County of New York, which is the County where your affirmant maintains offices.
The grounds of affirmant's belief as to all matters not stated upon affirmant's knowledge
are correspondence had with the said plaintiff, information contained in the said plaintiff's file,
which is in affirmant's possession, and other pertinent data relating thereto.
Dated: New York, New York
December 15, 2020

--- 717599_2020_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_v_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_BILL_OF_PARTICULARS_9.pdf ---
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO. 717599/2020
Plaintiff, VERIFIED BILL OF
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D., and
Plaintiff, by her attorneys, BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY,
LLP, in response to the Demand for a Verified Bill of Particulars served by Defendants,
MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., and KINGA RAMOS,
P.A.-C, alleges, upon information and belief:
1. (a-c) Plaintiff resides at 104-04 218th Place, Queens Village, New York.
2. Admission: May 9, 2019
Discharge (date of death of Plaintiff’s decedent): May 10, 2019.
3. Plaintiff’s decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, was initially admitted to MERCY
MEDICAL CENTER on May 9, 2019, for a scheduled left knee replacement surgery.
Following the surgery, on May 10, 2019, Plaintiff’s decedent fainted or otherwise lost
consciousness during an OT session. The Defendants then undertook the treatment of the
condition that caused the sudden collapse.
4. The negligent acts and omissions of the Defendants MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C constituting medical
malpractice while Plaintiff’s decedent JOSEPH SAINT SURIN was a patient at MERCY
MEDICAL CENTER during a course of treatment commencing on or about May 9, 2019 and
continuing through May 10, 2019, include the Defendants and/or their agents, servants and/or
employees, including non-employee medical personnel appointed to the care of Plaintiff’s
decedent, having failed, neglected, and omitted to render proper and acceptable medical care to
the Plaintiff’s decedent in accordance with the standards of medical care in the community at
that time; the Defendants breached, violated and disregarded their affirmative duty owed to
Plaintiff’s decedent, by failing to properly and timely diagnose and/or treat Plaintiff’s decedent’s
medical conditions, including pulmonary embolism, leading to his wrongful death; in failing to
exercise all care reasonably necessary and appropriate to prevent Plaintiff’s decedent’s death; in
failing to provide necessary treatment and services to prevent Plaintiff’s decedent’s death; in
failing to properly assess the Plaintiff’s decedent following knee replacement surgery conducted
on May 9, 2019; in failing to properly assess the Plaintiff’s decedent risk for deep vein
thrombosis (“DVT”) and / or pulmonary embolism (“PE”), following knee replacement surgery
on May 9, 2019; in failing to employ proper procedures to minimize the risk of complications to
the Plaintiff’s decedent; in failing to order and administer proper anticoagulant prophylaxis to
prevent the development of DVT following knee replacement surgery; in delaying proper
treatment to the Plaintiff’s decedent; in employing treatment, which the Defendants should have
known would be ineffectual, thereby worsening the Plaintiff’s decedent’s condition; in failing to
exercise all care reasonably necessary and appropriate to prevent DVT and/or acute PE; in failing
to provide necessary treatment and services to prevent DVT and/or acute PE; in failing to
develop a comprehensive care plan with appropriate and timely interventions to prevent DVT
and/or acute PE; in failing to properly and adequately implement interventions necessary for the
prevention of DVT and/or acute PE; in causing or allowing DVT and/or acute PE to develop
after Plaintiff’s decedent’s knee replacement surgery; in failing to properly monitor Plaintiff’s
decedent following his surgery; in failing to provide proper and appropriate post-surgical
medical care; in failing to ensure that Plaintiff’s decedent was receiving proper and appropriate
post-surgical medical care; in improperly diagnosing Plaintiff’s decedent with stroke on May 10,
2019; in improperly initiating stroke code following Plaintiff’s decedent’s syncope / sudden loss
of consciousness on May 10, 2019; in failing to properly follow the differential diagnosis process
following Plaintiff’s decedent’s syncope / sudden loss of consciousness on May 10, 2019; in
failing to consider acute PE as the reason for Plaintiff’s decedent’s syncope / sudden loss of
consciousness during his OT session and his subsequent condition on May 10, 2019; in
improperly ruling out acute PE; in failing to properly rule out PE; in failing to perform proper
and timely diagnostic testing including bedside transthoracic echocardiography or bedside
ultrasound to rule out or confirm PE; in improperly administering propofol to Plaintiff’s
decedent; in improperly intubating Plaintiff’s decedent on May 10, 2019; in improperly causing
an increase in Plaintiff’s decedent’s airway pressure / intrathoracic pressure on May 10, 2019; in
causing post-intubation decompensation; in causing cardiac arrest; in failing to administer
oxygen via nasal cannula or alternative methods instead of intubating Plaintiff’s decedent on
May 10, 2019; in failing to properly and timely treat acute PE; in failing to provide necessary
treatment for acute PE; in failing to timely order and administer thrombolytic therapy; in failing
to order and administer systemic thrombolysis; in failing to order and administer tPA / alteplase;
in failing to timely order and administer heparin; in depriving Plaintiff’s decedent of the
opportunity to survive acute PE; in causing Plaintiff’s decedent’s wrongful death; in failing to
create and maintain accurate medical records.
5. Defendant’s negligent acts / omissions occurred on May 10, 2019, between
approximately 1:35 p.m. or earlier, and the time of death, 3:06 p.m. (with the exception of the
allegations regarding Defendants’ failures to properly assess Plaintiff’s decedent and to properly
prevent DVT and/or PE).
6. Mercy Medical Center, 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville Centre, NY
7. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
537 (2nd Dept. 1974). Without waving this objection, Defendant Mercy Medical Center is
vicariously liable for the malpractice / negligent acts/omissions of all nursing staff and medical
personnel, including non-employee physicians, who were assigned/appointed by Defendant
Mercy Medical Center to participate in the care and treatment of Plaintiff’s decedent.
Defendant physicians are vicariously liable for the malpractice / negligent acts/omissions of
physician assistants who were acting under the physicians’ guidance and supervision.
8. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
9. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
10. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
11. Plaintiff’s decedent suffered the following serious personal injuries:
Plaintiff’s decedent’s spouse (the plaintiff herein) and decedent’s five adult
children suffered pecuniary loss including loss of services and loss of guidance, as a result of his
12. All of the above injuries were permanent and contributed to Plaintiff’s decedent’s
13. Plaintiff’s decedent was confined to hospital and bed during his admission to
Defendant’s facility.
14. Plaintiff incurred the following special damages:
(a-d) All physician’s services, medical services, nurses’ services, medical
supplies, hospital expenses, and medications were covered by Medicare and/or Medicaid.
Plaintiff intends to claim as economic damages any relevant expenditures claimed as a “lien” by
Medicaid and / or Medicare or any other applicable collateral source. Plaintiff will supplement
this Bill of Particulars to reflect such amounts if and when obtained;
(e) Loss of earning – not applicable;
(f) Maid’s services – none;
(g) Other damages – to be provided, if applicable.
Plaintiff reserves the right to prove additional special damages at the time of the trial of
this action in the event these costs are continuing.
15. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars.
16. Not applicable. Plaintiff’s decedent was retired.
18. Not applicable.
19. Plaintiff’s decedent’s date of birth: ██/██/1952.
20. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
21. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
22. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
537 (2nd Dept. 1974). Without waiver, Plaintiff will request that the Court take judicial notice
of the applicable law, ordinances, statutes and common law claimed to have been violated by the
defendants. Plaintiff claims violation by the defendants of each and every applicable law,
statute, rule, regulation and/or ordinance in force and effect at the time of the occurrence
complained of in the Complaint, and every subsection thereof.
23. Not applicable.
24. through 43. Each of these demands are objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of
Particulars. See, Toth v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory
44. See paragraph 14, above.
45. Plaintiff’s decedent was 67 years old at the time of his death.
46. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. Without
waiver: Plaintiff’s decedent’s spouse is the plaintiff herein, Marie J. Saint Surin. Plaintiff’s
decedent’s children: Jephthe Saint Surin; Markenson Saint Surin; Gamael Saint Surin;
Constanio Saint Surin; Kervens Saint Surin.
47. Plaintiff’s decedent was retired.
48. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars.
49. Funeral expenses: $7,900.00.
51. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars.
52. See paragraph 11, above.
Dated: New York, New York
December 15, 2020
Attorneys for Plaintiff
111 John Street, Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
Attorneys for Defendants
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530
Attorneys for Defendant
One Whitehall Street, 10th Floor
New York, New York 10004
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO. 717599/2020
Plaintiff, ATTORNEY'S
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D., and
BEN BARTOLOTTA, an attorney duly admitted to practice law in the State of New
York, makes the following affirmation under the penalty of perjury:
I am of the firm of BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY, LLP, the
attorneys of record for the plaintiff.
I have read the foregoing Bill of Particulars and know the contents thereof; the same is
true to my own knowledge except as to the matters therein stated to be alleged on information
and belief and that as to those matters, I believe them to be true.
This verification is made by affirmant and not by plaintiff because she is not in the
County of New York, which is the County where your affirmant maintains offices.
The grounds of affirmant's belief as to all matters not stated upon affirmant's knowledge
are correspondence had with the said plaintiff, information contained in the said plaintiff's file,
which is in affirmant's possession, and other pertinent data relating thereto.
Dated: New York, New York
December 15, 2020

--- 717599_2020_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_v_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_ANSWER_7.pdf ---
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
VERIFIED ANSWER
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
The defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS,
P.A.-C, by their attorneys, MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, answering the complaint
of the plaintiff, herein, respectfully show to this Court and allege:
ANSWERING THE ALLEGED GENERAL ALLEGATIONS
FIRST. Defendants deny that they have any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a
belief as to the truth ofeach and every allegation contained in paragraphs designated "1", "2", "3", "4", "33",
"34", and of the complaint herein.
SECOND. Defendants deny each and every allegation set forth in paragraphs designated "5", "35",
THIRD. Defendants deny in the form alleged each and every allegation set forth in paragraphs
designated "6", "8", "9", "10", and of the complaint herein, except defendants admit that
defendant, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, operates a hospital pursuant to New York State Law, respectfully
refers all questions of law to this Court and all questions of facts to trial therein.
FOURTH. Defendants admit each and every allegation set forth in paragraphs designated "7", "32",
and of the complaint herein.
FIFTH. Defendants deny in the form alleged each and every allegation set forth in paragraphs
defendants admit that defendant, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., rendered certain medical care and treatment
to the plaintiff s decedent, respectfully refers all questions of law to this Court and all questions of facts to
SIXTH. Defendants deny in the form alleged each and every allegation set forth in paragraphs
designated "23", "24", "25", "26", "27", "28", "29", and of the complaint herein, except defendants
admit that defendant, KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, is a duly licensed physician's assistant in the State of New
York, respectfully refers all questions of law to this Court and all questions of facts to trial therein.
DEFENSE_. THE DEFENDANTS ALLEGE:
SEVENTH. Upon information and belief, that the injury or injuries, if any, sustained by the
plaintiff s decadent at the time and place, or on the occasion referred to in the plaintiff s complaint, and
which it is alleged was the cause ofthe death/injuries of the plaintiff sdecedent were sustained or so suffered
or caused by the negligent act or acts of the plaintiff s decedent.
DEFENSE, THE DEFENDANTS. ALLEGE:
EIGHTH. Upon information and belief, in the event plaintiff recovers at time of trial against
defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C,
such recovery for non-economic loss shall not exceed defendant's equitable share determined in accordance
with the relative culpability of each person, party and/or entity, which caused or contributed to the total
liability for non-economic loss; provided that the liability ofthe defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, are found to be fifty percent or less of the total
liability of all persons, parties and/or entities liable.
DEFENSE. THE DEFENDANTS ALLEGE :
NINTH. That the plaintiff lacks capacity to maintain this lawsuit.
DEFENSE, THE DEFENDANTS ALLEGE:
TENTH. These answering defendants demand that liability, if any, be apportioned.
DEFENSE, THE DEFENDANTS ALLEGE:
ELEVENTH. With respect to any cause of action set forth in plaintiff s complaint, based upon
failure to obtain informed consent, defendant pleads each and every defense, as applicable, set forth and
provided by Public Health Law, Section 2805(d).
DEFENSE. THE DEFENDANTS ALLEGE:
TWELFTH. That whatever damages the plaintiff recovers as against these answering defendants
be reduced pursuant to General Obligations Law Section 15-108.
DEFENSE, THE DEFEllDANTS ALLEGE:
THIRTEENTH. Upon information and belief, that all or a part of plaintiffs special damages have
been paid or will be paid by collateral sources and no award should, in any event, be made for same.
WHEREFORE, defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, demand judgment dismissing the complaint ofthe plaintiffherein, with costs and
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530-7677
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 Jolm Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
Plaintiff(s), BJLL OF PARTICULARS
-againstIndex No. 717599/2020
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that we demand that you serve upon us within twenty (20) days a verified
bill of particulars setting forth in detail the following particulars:
1. State the post office address and residence of the plaintiff:
a. at the time the acts of this action arose;
b. at the time when this action was commenced;
2. State the dates of admission to and discharge from the defendant MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C.
3. State the condition(s) which it is claimed that this answering defendant undertook to treat.
4. Generally state each and every act ofnegligence, commission or omission, which plaintiff(s)
claim(s) as the basis of the alleged malpractice of the defendant MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C.
5. State the date(s) and approximate time(s) of day of each of the alleged negligent acts and/or
omissions alleged in paragraph 4.
6. State the location of each of the alleged negligent acts and/or omissions alleged against the
defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA
7. If it is claimed that the answering defendant if vicariously liable for the negligence of any
person, state the name of such person or persons.
8. A statement of each and every act and/or omission claimed to constitute the alleged
malpractice complained of with regard to that person or persons referred to in paragraph 7.
9. State the accepted medical practices, customs or standards which it is claimed were violated
by the defendant with respect to the acts and/or omissions referred to in paragraphs 4 and 7.
10. State whether any claim is made as to improper, unavailable or defective equipment, and if
so, identify the equipment and state the defective conditions.
11. State the specific injuries, illnesses or afflictions plaintiff suffered as a result of the alleged
negligence and/or malpractice of the defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C.
12. State with specificity which, if any, of the above injuries, illnesses or afflictions is of a
permanent nature, and in what respect each is claimed to be permanent.
13. State the length of time and the dates thereof plaintiff was confined to each of the following
by virtue of the acts or omissions of the answering defendant:
14. State separately the total amounts claimed by the plaintiff as special damages for each of the
a. services (with the names and addresses of all physicians and the amounts
b. services (with the names and addresses of all nurses and the amounts owed);
c. medical supplies;
d. hospital expenses, with the names and addresses of all the hospitals;
e. loss of earnings (with the names and addresses of all employers and the claimed
g. any other claimed special damages, identifying each such other special damage.
15. If loss of services is claimed, state the pecuniary loss alleged and in what respect(s) there was
a loss of services and/or consortium, and the amount claimed for medical and other expenses
as a result thereof.
a. occupation, if any, of the plaintiff;
b. name and address ofplaintiffs employer, ifself-employed, state the business address
of the plaintiff s employment and the type of business or occupation in which the
plaintiff was engaged immediately prior to the occurrence;
c. length of time, and dates thereof, and the extent on each such date plaintiff was
unable to attend to employment;
d. amount of earnings, if any, the plaintiff claims to have lost as a result of the
e. Social Security number of the plaintiff;
f. amount of money, if any, plaintiff earned during the year prior to the occurrence.
17. State whether the plaintiff has been reimbursed, indemnified, or has had payment made on
its behalf from any collateral source for the claims of economic loss.
18. If the answer to paragraph 17 is yes, state:
a. for which of such claims plaintiff has been reimbursed or indemnified, or has had
payment made on his/her behalf;
b. the amount paid on such claims and the amount to be paid in the future.
19. State the plaintiffs date of birth.
20. State the specific time(s) and place(s) plaintiff claims any disclosure was had regarding the
risks, hazards, and alternatives incidental to the treatment herein, specifying:
a. the name(s) of the person(s) said discussion(s) are alleged to have been with;
b. the name(s) of any person(s) acting on behalf of defendant MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C with whom
plaintiff claims to have received disclosure of said matters;
c. the substance of the disclosure;
d. whether plaintiff ever signed a written consent to authorize the treatment herein;
e. if the answer to (d) is yes, state the date(s) and place(s) wherein said consent(s) or
authorization(s) were signed, and the item(s) consented to or authorized herein;
f. the names of those present at the time each consent or authorization was given;
g. whether plaintiff ever gave oral consent to the authorized treatment herein; and ifthe
answer to (g) is yes, state the date(s) and place(s) wherein said oral consent was
h. if said oral consent was given, give the name(s) of those present at the time said oral
consent was given;
i. the substance of the disclosure, if any, had when said oral consent was given.
21. State what treatment was administered to plaintiff without the plaintiff giving informed
consent for said treatment and state the approximate time said treatment was administered.
22. State by article, section, division and subdivision the rules, regulations, standards, statutes
or ordinances alleged to have been violated by defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C.
23. With respect to the injuries claimed:
a. state the name, address and date(s) on which the plaintiff visited any medical
practitioner for subsequent treatment or examination.
b. state the name, address and date(s) of admission and discharge for each subsequent
hospitalization;
c. state the name, address and date(s) on which the plaintiff visited a clinic or other
institution for subsequent treatment or examination or if the plaintiff was confined
as an in-patient, state the period of confinement.
24. State the additional medical and surgical procedures that plaintiff was allegedly forced to
undergo as a result of the defendant's negligence.
25. If there are any claims of vicarious liability against the defendant hospital with respect to
negligent acts and/or omissions, state whether the same was committed by:
b. a resident physician;
d. a physician employed by the defendant hospital;
e. other employees of the defendant hospital.
26. With respect to each nurse it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or omission, state:
a. his/her name, or if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit
ready identification;
b. the alleged negligent act and/or omission alleged;
c. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) wherein the alleged negligent act and/or omission
27. With respect to residents it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or omission, state:
a. his/her name, or if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit
ready identification;
b. his/her specialty, if any;
c. the alleged negligent act and/or omission committed;
d. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) wherein the alleged negligent act and/or omission
28. With respect to each physician and/or department allegedly employed by the defendant
hospital it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or omission, state:
a. his/her name, or if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit
ready identification;
b. his/her and/or its specialty, if any;
c. whether the physician and/or department was a consultant and, if so, by whom was
called into consultation;
d. what services the physician and/or department rendered and/or performed;
e. the alleged negligent act and/or omission committed;
f. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) wherein the alleged negligent act and/or omission
29. With respect to each alleged employee of the defendant hospital, other than those specified
above, it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or omission, state:
a. his/her name, job title, position and occupation, or ifunknown, aphysical description.
of sufficient clarity to permit ready identification;
b. what services he/she rendered and/or administered to or for the plaintiff;
c. the alleged negligent act and/or omission committed;
d. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) wherein the alleged negligent act and/or omission
30. If it is claimed any nurse, resident, intern, physician employed by the defendant hospital or
any other employee(s) of the defendant hospital failed to properly carry out an order, state:
a. the name of the person who made the order;
b. the date, time and place the order was made;
c. whether the order was written or verbal, and, if in writing, the date it was entered in
the hospital records;
d. exactly how each order so claimed was improperly performed.
31. State whether it was claimed that the defendant hospital failed to properly perform and/or
interpret a test or procedure.
32. If the response to the above is yes, state:
a. the test(s) or procedure(s) the defendant hospital failed to properly perform and/or
b. by whom each test and/or procedure was ordered;
c. the date of each test and/or procedure ordered;
d. the person's name who performed and/or interpreted the test(s) and/or procedure(s)
in question, or if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit
ready identification;
e. the date(s), time(s) and location(s) each such test and/or procedure was improperly
performed and/or interpreted;
f. exactly how each test and/or procedure was improperly performed and/or interpreted.
33. If it is alleged that the defendant improperly performed a surgical procedure that was contraindicated and/or unnecessary, set forth:
a. the name of each surgical procedure performed and the date it was performed;
b. the surgical procedure which it is claimed is contra-indicated and/or unnecessary;
c. in what manner the aforesaid surgical procedure was contra-indicated;
d. in what manner the aforesaid surgical procedure was improperly performed;
e. in what manner the aforesaid surgical procedure should have been performed.
34. If the plaintiff claims that the defendant ignored or improperly interpreted complaints, signs,
symptoms or conditions; made an erroneous diagnosis; failed to make a proper diagnosis;
improperly treated the plaintiff; administered improper, inappropriate and/or contra-indicated
drugs; administered proper drugs in incorrect dosages; failed to make proper tests;
improperly took or administered tests; failed to perform a proper physical examination, set
a. the complaints, signs, symptoms or conditions that defendant failed to interpret
b. the proper interpretation, which plaintiff claims should have been reached or made;
c. in what respect the diagnosis was erroneous and incorrect;
d. the claimed proper diagnosis;
e. the improper treatment which it is alleged was rendered;
f. the treatment which it is claimed by plaintiff should have been rendered;
g. the generic and trade name of each and every improper and/or contra-indicated drug
which was administered or prescribed;
h. the name of each proper drug allegedly administered incorrectly or in incorrect
i. the manner in which it is alleged each such drug should have been administered
and/or the correct dosage thereof;
j. the name and/or description of each and every test defendant failed to take or
k. the name of each and every test the defendant improperly took or administered;
1. the manner in which it is claimed each such test should have been administered or
m. a description of the physical examination performed and the mañnct in which it is
claimed such physical examination should have been performed.
35. With respect to each agent, servant, employee, it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or
omission, state:
a. His/her name, or if unknown, aphysical description with sufficient clarity to permit ready
b. the alleged negligent act and/or omission;
c. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) where the alleged negligent act and/or omission was
36. With respect to each physician and/or department allegedly employed by the defendant
hospital it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or omission, state:
a. his/her name, or if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit ready
b. his/her specialty, if any;
c. whether the physician and/or the department was a consultant, and if so, by whom was
called into consultation;
d. what services the physician and/or department rendered and/or performed;
e. the alleged negligent act and/or omission committed;
f. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) wherein alleged negligent act and/or omission was
37. If it is claimed any nurse, resident, intern, physician employed by the defendant hospital or
any other employees of the defendant hospital failed to properly carry out an order, state:
a. name of person who made the order;
b. date, time and place order was made;
c. how each order so claimed was improperly performed.
38. State whether it is claimed that the defendant hospital failed to properly perform and/or
interpret a test or procedure.
39. If the response to the above is yes, state:
a. the test(s) or procedure(s) the defendant hospital failed to properly perform and/or
b. the person's name who performed and/or interpreted the test(s) and/or procedure(s), or
if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit ready identification;
c. the date(s), time(s) and location(s) each such test and/or procedure was improperly
performed and/or interpreted.
40. State the manner in which the defendant hospital failed to investigate residents, nurses and
others involved in plaintiff's decedent's care prior to granting or renewing privileges or
41. State the names of those individuals who were not investigated prior to granting privileges
42. State the manner in which the defendant hospital failed to make sufficient inquiries of the
physicians, nurses and/or employees and institutions which had information relevant to the
capacity, competence and ability of said persons rendering treatment.
43. State whether plaintiff was reimbursed by his/her employer or from another source for any
part of his/her lost earnings, and state the source, the amount, and state whether plaintiff is
legally obligated to repay the same if he/she had recovered herein.
44. State whether any items claimed as special damages were paid by collateral sources, and if
so, state which, the amount so paid, the source and whether plaintiff is obligated to repay
same, and, further, if any claim has been made but not yet honored for the reimbursement
from any collateral source, set forth the name of the collateral source and the amount or
reimbursement claimed. If the collateral source is an insurance company, set forth the policy
number under which said claim was paid or made, as well as the name and address of the
45. The age of the deceased at the time of his/her death.
46. The names, addresses and ages of the next of kin who claimed to have been damaged by the
death, and how related to the deceased.
47. The occupation of the deceased, just prior to his/her death, giving the name and address of
his/her employer.
48. The monthly income of the deceased, giving the amount received by each of the next of kin.
49. An itemized statement of all funeral expenses.
50. The date of death of the deceased.
51. Any other income the deceased was receiving prior to his/her death.
52. State and set forth the injuries sustained by the deceased allegedly causing and resulting in
AND PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that in the event of the plaintiff sfailure to comply with
the foregoing demand within twenty (20) days, the defendant will move to preclude the offering of any
evidence as to matters herein demanded.
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 John Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
NOTICE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT in light of the current international epidemic arising from the COVID-19
virus, and in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, our office is working remotely. Due to widespread
office closures, Court closures, other official closures, remote work and/or other procedures and protocols
enacted to inhibit the spread ofthe virus, this document, and all documents, cannot be served by regular mail
or otherwise. Under all current circumstances, and upon information and belief, service by email is the
optimal and safest form of service at this time. If you object, please notify us in which case we reserve all
rights to re-serve this document in compliance with all applicable laws and/or rules following the resolution
of any and all protocols enacted relating to the COVID-19 virus.
THE PARTIES TO THIS ACTION ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the document(s) to which this Notice
and Affidavit are attached is/are being served by email. The Affidavit of Service by Email follows:
AFFIDAVIT OF SERVICE BY EMAIL
JENNIFERL. BRYANT, being duly sworn, deposes and says: that deponent is not a party to this action that
she is of 18 years and upwards, and that she is employed by the offices of MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, attorneys for defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER
TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, in the above entitled action, that the office address of said
attorneys is 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, New York 11530-7677;
that on the 26th day of October, 2020, I served by email the within ANSWER WITH DEMAND FOR
VERIFIED BILL OF PARTICULARS upon the following:
TO: mez@bzslaw.com
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
NOTICE OF EXAMINATION
Plaintiff(s), BEFORE TRIAL
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
PLEASE TAKENOTICE that pursuant to CPLR3106, et seq., the defendant(s) MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C will take the deposition before trial
of Plaintiff(s) MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as A dminktrator of the Estate of JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, and
All Co-Defendant, before a Notary Public at Supreme Court, Queens County, 88-11 Sutphin Boulevard,
Jamaica, New York on the 17th day of December, 2020 at 10:00 o'clock in the forenoon of that day,
That for the purpose of refreshing their recollection, the said parties are to have and produce upon
said examination, such records, books, papers, documents, correspondence and copies thereof, and other
writings and papers kept by them or in their custody or control as relate to the matters in controversy in said
action and to the dealings or transactions between the parties to said action, as alleged and set forth in the
complaint of said action.
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530-7677
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 John Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
NOTICE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT in light of the current international epidemic arising from the COVID-19
. virus, and in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, our office is working remotely. Due to widespread
office closures, Court closures, other official closures, remote work and/or other procedures and protocols
enacted to inhibit the spread of the virus, this document, and all documents, cannot be servedbyregularmail
or otherwise. Under all current circumstances, and upon information and belief, service by email is the
optimal and safest form of service at this time. If you object, please notify us in which case we reserve all
rights to re-serve this document in compliance with all applicable laws and/or rules following the resolution
of any and all protocols enacted relating to the COVID-19 virus.
THE PARTIES TO THIS ACTION ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the document(s) to which this Notice
and Affidavit are attached is/are being served by email. The Affidavit of Service by Email follows:
AFFIDAVIT OF SERVICE BY EMAIL
JENNIFER L. BRYANT, being duly sworn, deposes and says: that deponent is not a party to this action that
she is of 18 years and upwards, and that she is employed by the offices of MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, attorneys for defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER
TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, in the above entitled action, that the office address of said
attorneys is 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, New York 11530-7677;
that on the 26th day of October, 2020, I served by email the within NOTICE OF EXAMINATION
BEFORE TRIAL upon the following:
TO: mez@bzslaw.com
SUPREME C OURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
Pursuant to the applicable rules of the Civil Practice Law and Rules of the State of New York,
defendant(s) hereby demand(s) the following:
(a) Copies of the medical reports of those physicians who have previously treated or examined the
party seeking recovery. These shall include a detailed recital of the injuries and conditions as to
which testimony will be offered at the trial, and shall refer to and identify x-rays taken of plaintiff
and technicians who have treated plaintiff.
(b) Duly executed and acknowledged written authorizations permitting all parties to obtain and
make copies of all hospital records, and other health care provider(s) records, including x-rays and
reports, pertaining to the plaintiff.
APPEARANCES
A list of the attorneys who have appeared for defendants and their post office addresses and
residences in sufficient detail to permit service of papers pursuant to Rule 2103 of the Civil Practice Law
The names and addresses of all eyewitnesses to the occurrence and/or any other witnesses who can
reflect on some cause of the occurrence which is the subject matter of this action.
The original of each and every statement and/or other writing taken of or received by plaintiff(s)
and/or defendant(s) or their respective attorneys, agents or representatives, from any said plaintiff(s) and/or
defendant(s), or from any agent, servant or employee of any said plaintiff(s) and/or defendant(s).
1. Copies of all photographs and/or videos depicting the alleged negligence claimed herein.
2. Copies of all photographs and/or videos depicting the injuries alleged herein.
1. Name each person who you expect to call as an expert witness at the trial of this action.
2. Set forth in detail the qualifications of each expert witness including:
(a) undergraduate school, address and dates of attendance;
(b) medical school, address and dates of attendance;
(c) board certifications, if any, with date(s) of certification;
(d) internships, residencies, fellowships, or any other specialized training,
and date(s) of such attendance;
(e) State(s) in which expert is licensed and date(s) obtained;
(f) hospital affiliations;
(g) title of any text authored, contributed to, and/or edited by the expert,
with a citation to said text, including name of publication, volume
number, date and any other identifying matter;
(h) area of the experts specialty or expertise;
(i) annex the curriculum vitae of each expert.
3. Attach to your response a copy of the expert report received in this matter.
4. Set forth in reasonable detail the subject matter on which each expert is expected to
5. Set forth in reasonable detail the facts and opinions on which each expert is expected to
6. Set forth in reasonable detail a summary of the grounds of each expert's opinion.
1. Any and all books, records, bills, insurance applications, insurance receipts, canceled checks,
copies of checks, and any and all other records pertaining to collateral source reimbursement
received by plaintiff or on behalf of plaintiff for the special damages alleged in the instant
2. Duly executed authorizations permitting the defendant, to obtain the records of any person,
institution, facility or governmental agency which has provided, or will provide any
reimbursement for any of the special damages alleged herein, whether or not such person,
organization, facility or governmental agency has been listed in response to paragraph 1,
The defeñdâñts request a supplemental demand setting forth the total damages to which the plaintiffs
deem themselves entitled.
PLEADINGS FROM ANOTHER ACTION
1. Any Notice of Claim, claim, demand or Supplemental Claim, directed to served upon or
delivered to any government, governmental agency or entity, city or municipality, county,
village, etc., municipal or public corporation, etc. with respect to any other action or
proceeding relating to the occurrence alleged in plaintiff's complaint.
2. Any correspondence, demands or notices prepared by or on behalf of the plaintiffor received
by or on behalf of the plaintiff with respect to any claim, etc., as set forth in the preceding
3. Any summons, complaint, pleading, disclosure demand or response, bill of particulars, etc.,
prepared, served, mailed, created, etc., by or on behalf of the plaintiff herein with respect to
any athg action or proceeding relating to the occurrence alleged in the plaintiff's complaint.
4. Any summons, complaint, pleading, disclosure demand or response, bill of particulars, etc.,
received by or on behalf of the plaintiff herein with respect to any other action or proceeding
relating to the occurrence alleged in the plaintiff's complaint.
5. Any audio or video recording, notes or transcript of testimony taken from anyone at any
examination, deposition, hearing, municipal hearing or other proceeding held in respect of
any other claim, action or proceeding relating to the occurrence alleged in plaintiff's
complaint. If you claim that you do not have the written or recorded testimony, please set
forth the following:
(a) Date, time and place of the examination, etc.,
(b) Agency or municipality, etc.,
(c) Hearing officer;
(d) Reporter or recorded means utilized and who operated same;
(e) Witness name.
6. The report of any examining physician where a physical exam was conducted relating to any
claim, Notice of Claim, etc., proceeding or ath_g action relating to the occurrence alleged in
the plaintiff's complaint.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that pursuant to §3120 of the CPLR and the Court's recent holdings in
Romano v. Steelcase, Inc. 30 Misc 3d 426,907 NYS 2d 650; and Patterson v. Turner Construction
Co., 88 AD3D 617,931 NYS2d 311; you are hereby required to furnish to the undersigned
authorizations to obtain full access to and copies of all plaintiff's current and historical Facebook
and MySpace accounts for the period of one (1) year prior to the date of loss in this matter to the
(a) Authorizations shall permit the release offull and complete copies of said accounts including
by not limited to: all records; information; photos; videos; comments; messages and posting
on Facebook and MySpace accounts.
(b) Authorizations shall include the name, user name, screen name, and e-mail account used in
creating each and every MySpace and Facebook account.
OR COMPLAINTS
All documents, including but not limited to correspondence, reports, records, memoranda, etc., with
respect to the plaintiff(s) which is the subject of this litigation and which concerns the following:
(a) Any prior accident;
(b) Any Complaint made to anyone prior to the accident;
(c) Violation notices issued by governmental agency;
(d) Clearance or satisfaction of any violation notice.
1. The names and addresses of all unions belonged to by plaintiff(s) for five (5) years prior to
the accident and up the present;
2. Duly executed and acknowledged original written authorizations to allow us to obtain the
complete union records for the plaintiff from each identified in (1) above.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that pursuant to the Uniform Rules - Trial Courts, and in particular Part
202, thereof, Uniform Civil Rules for the Supreme Court and the County Court, and more specifically
§202.17, which deals withthe Exchange ofMedicalReports in Personal Injury and Wrongful DeathActions,
plaintiff is ecrepelled to provide at least Twenty (20) days prior to physical examinations of the plaintiff by
doctor(s)/expert(s), copies of the medical reports of those medical providers who have
previously treated or examined the party seeking recovery. These shall include a recital of the injuries and
conditions as to which testimony will be offered at the trial, referring to and identifying those x-ray and
reports which will be offered at trial, including a description of the injuries sustained, a
diagnosis, and prognosis. Medical reports may consist of completed medical provider,
compensation, or insurance forms that provide the information required by this paragraph.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that upon failure to comply with this demand, objection shall be made
upon trial of this action as to the offering into evidence and/or eliciting testimony as to any of the items
requested herein, which have not been disclosed.
NOTICE PURSUANT TO CPLR SECTION 2103(5)
Pursuant to CPLR Section 2103(5) the office of the undersigned will not accept service of papers
by facsimile (fax) transmittal or other electronic means.
NOTICE PURSUANT TO CPLR SECTION 2103(7)
Pursuant to CPLR Section2103(7) the office ofthe undersigned will not consentto service ofpapers
by electronic means.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that these demands shall be deemed to continue during the pendency
of the action, including the trial thereof, and in the event of your failure to comply with these notices or any
part thereof, the undersigned, upon the trial of this action, will object to the testimony by any witnesses
called as to the information and documents called for pursuant to these notices and we will move to preclude
THIS NOTICE is served upon you in order to prevent any plea of surprise upon the trial of this
It is requested that the aforementioned production be made within twenty (20) days ofthe date herein
at the law offices of MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden
City, New York 11530. Inspection will be made and copying will be done at the defendant's expense and
the documents will be promptly returned after copying has been completed. The aforesaid may be complied
with by sending atrue copy of each aforementioned item to the undersigned within the time herein specified.
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 John Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
NOTICE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT in light of the current international epidemic arising from the COVID-19
virus, and in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, our office is working remotely. Due to widespread
office closures, Court closures, other official closures, remote work and/or other procedures and protocols
enacted to inhibit the spread of the virus, this document, and all documents, cannot be served by regular mail
or otherwise. Under all current circumstances, and upon information and belief, service by email is the
optimal and safest form of service at this time. If you object, please notify us in which case we reserve all
rights to re-serve this document in compliance with all applicable laws and/or rules following the resolution
of any and all protocols enacted relating to the COVID-19 virus.
THE PARTIES TO THIS ACTION ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the document(s) to which this Notice
and Affidavit are attached is/are being served by email. The Affidavit of Service by Email follows:
AFFIDAVIT OF SERVICE BY EMAIL
JENNIFER L. BRYANT, being duly sworn, deposes and says: that deponent is not a party to this action that
she is of 18 years and upwards, and that she is employed by the offices of MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, attorneys for defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER
TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, in the above entitled action, that the office address of said
attorneys is 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, New York 11530-7677;
that on the 26th day of October, 2020, I served by email the within COMBINED DEMANDS upon the
TO: mez@bzslaw.com
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
Plaintiff(s), RELEASE INFORMATION
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
Pursuant to the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (MMSEA), Public Law
Number 110-173, defendant hereby demands that plaintiff complete and execute a Social Security form
SSA-3288 (Consent to Release Information) and forward it to MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE &
SALLEY LLP, 840 Franklin Avenue, P.O. Box 7677, Garden City, New York 11530, within twenty (20)
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530-7677
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 John Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
NOTICE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT in light of the current international epidemic arising from the COVID-19
virus, and in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, our office is working remotely. Due to widespread
office closures, Court closures, other official closures, remote work and/or other procedures and protocols
enacted to inhibit the spread of the virus, this document, and all documents, cannot be served by regular mail
or otherwise. Under all current circumstances, and upon information and belief, service by email is the
optimal and safest form of service at this time. If you object, please notify us in which case we reserve all
rights to re-serve this document in compliance with all applicable laws and/or rules following the resolution
of any and all protocols enacted relating to the COVID-19 virus.
THE PARTIES TO THIS ACTION ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the document(s) to which this Notice
and Affidavit are attached is/are being served by email. The Affidavit of Service by Email follows:
AFFIDAVIT OF SERVICE BY EMAIL
JENNIFER L. BRYANT, being duly sworn, deposes and says: that deponent is not a party to this action that
she is of 18 years and upwards, and that she is employed by the offices of MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, attorneys for defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER
TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, in the above entitled action, that the office address of said
attorneys is 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, New York 11530-7677;
that on the 26th day of October, 2020, I served by email the within DEMAND FOR CONSENT TO
RELEASE INFORMATION upon the following:
TO: mcz@bzslaw.com
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
Plaintiff(s), AUTHORIZATIONS
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
FINKELSTElN, M.D.,
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that within twenty (20) days from the date hereof, you are required to
serve the undersigned with duly executed HIPAA authorizations permitting MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, or their authorized representatives, to obtain copies of the records of:
4. All treating providers per NYCRR202.17;
5. Prior treatment of the same parts of the body allegedly injured in the subject
PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE, that defendant(s) require(s) the full names and addresses of
all above-named physicians/institutions to expedite procurement of these records.
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530-7677
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 John Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
NOTICE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT in light of the current international epidemic arising from the COVID-19
virus, and in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, our office is working remotely. Due to widespread
office closures, Court closures, other official closures, remote work and/or other procedures and protocols
enacted to inhibit the spread of the virus, this document, and all documents, cannot be served by regular mail
or otherwise. Under all current circumstances, and upon information and belief, service by email is the
optimal and safest form of service at this time. If you object, please notify us in which case we reserve all
rights to re-serve this document in compliance with all applicable laws and/or rules following the resolution
of any and all protocols enacted relating to the COVID-19 virus.
THE PARTIES TO THIS ACTION ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the document(s) to which this Notice
and Affidavit are attached is/are being served by email. The Affidavit of Service by Email follows:
AFFIDAVIT OF SERVICE BY EMAIL
JENNIFER L. BRYANT, being duly sworn, deposes and says: that deponent is not a party to this action that
she is of 18 years and upwards, and that she is employed by the offices of MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, attorneys for defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER
TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, in the above entitled action, that the office address of said
attorneys is 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, New York 11530-7677;
that on the 26th day of October, 2020, I served by email the within DEMAND FOR AUTHORIZATIONS
upon the following:
TO: mcz@bzslaw.com

--- 717599_2020_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_v_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_SUMMONS___COMPLAINT_1.pdf ---
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
Plaintiff, Plaintiff designates Queens
County as the place of trial.
-againstS U M M O N S
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and The basis ofvenue is
ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D. Plaintiffs residence:
Defendants. Queens Village, New York
To the above-named Defendants:
You are hereby summoned to answer the complaiñt in this action, and to serve a
copy of your answer, or, if the complaint is not served with this summons, to serve a notice of
appearance on the Plaintiffs attorneys within twenty days after the service of this summons,
exclusive of the day of service, where service is made by delivery upon you.personally within the
state, or, within 30 days after completion of service where service is made in any other ñ1aimer.
In case of your failure to appear or answer, judgment will be taken agaiñst you by default for the
relief demanded in the complaint.
Dated: New York, New York
Attorneys for Plaintiff
111 John Street, Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
1000 North Village Avenue
Rockville Centre, New York 11570
46 Schenck Avenue, Apt. 2E
Great Neck, New York 11021
1000 North Village Avenue
Rockville Centre, New York 11570
1000 North Village Avenue
Rockville Centre, New York 11570
South Island Orthopaedic Group
657 Central Avenue
Cedarhurst, New York 11516
1000 North Village Avenue
Rockville Centre, New York 11570
Roslyn, New York 11576
1000 North Village Avenue
Rockville Centre, New York 11570
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO.
Plaintiff, VERIFIED COMPLAINT
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
Plaintiff, MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of JOSEPH SAINT
SURIN, by her attorneys, BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY, LLP, as and
for her Complaint, alleges, upon information and belief, as follows:
1. That at all times relevant herein, Plaintiff MARIE J. SAINT SURIN is the
Administrator of the Estate of JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, deceased, by virtue of her receipt of
Limited Letters of Admiñistration from Surrogate's Court, County of Queens, dated September
3, 2020 (copy annexed).
2. That at all times relevant herein, Plaintiff MARIE J. SAINT SURIN was, and still
is, a resident of the County of Queens, City and State of New York.
3. That at all times relevant herein, Plaintiff's decedent JOSEPH SAINT SURIN was
a resident of the County of Queens, City and State of New York.
4. That the causes of action alleged herein arose in the County of Nassau, State of
5. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was a
domestic not-for-profit corporation duly organized and existing under, and by virtue of, the laws
of the State of New York.
6. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was,
and still is, a corporation or other business or legal entity doing busiñess as a hospital in the
County of Nassau, State of New York.
7. That at all times relevãñt herein, the principal place of business of Defendant
MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was, and still is, located in the County of Nassau, State of New
8. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was
still and is a hospital duly organized and ev3sting under and by virtue of the laws of the State of
New York, located at 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville Centre, New York 11570.
9. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
owned, operated, coñtrolled, and mâñãged a hospital for the care of the sick, pursuant to the laws
of the State of New York, known as MERCY MEDICAL CENTER located at 1000 North
Village Avenue, Rockville Centre, NY 11570, which provided personnel, including doctors,
nurses, attendants and others for the care and treatment of its patients and which held itself out to
the public as furñishing treatment facilities where patients, including Plaintiff's decedent,
JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, could be treated for various conditions.
10. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
employed medical care professionals, including physicians and nurses, to provide medical care to
MERCY MEDICAL CENTER patients.
11. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
held itself out to the public as being able to and qualified to care for patients, more particularly
the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, in its respective specialty of hospital care.
12. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER held
itself out to the public and more particularly to the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN,
as utilizing and employing medical personnel possessing the proper degree of Icarñiñg and skill
necessary to render medical services in accordance with good and accepted stañdards of medical
13. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. was and
represented himself to be a physician duly licensed to practice medicine in the State of New
14. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. held
himself out to the public as possessing the proper degree of learning and skill ñêcessary to render
medical services in accordance with good and accepted standards of medical practice.
15. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.
represêñted that he was competent to perform and render all medical care, treatment and
services, as required by the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
16. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.
practiced medicine at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, located at 1000 North Village Avenue,
Rockville Centre, NY 11570.
17. That at all times relevañt herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. was an
employee, agent and/or servant of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
18. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. was a
medical doctor who performed services for Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
.19. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. was a
medical doctor with privileges at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
20. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.
provided medical treatment and services to Plaintiff's dccedêñt, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, on
behalf of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
21. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
provided and/or appointed Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. to 94miniater medical
treatment and services to Plaintiff's decedêñt, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
22. That at all times relevant herein, defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was
vicariously and/or ostensibly liable for the negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendant
23. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C was and
represented herself to be a Physician Assistant duly licensed to practice in the State of New
24. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C held herself
out to the public as possessiñg the proper degree of learning and skill necessary to render PAlevel medical services in accordance with good and accepted standards of medical practice.
25. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C
represented that she was competent to perform and render all PA-level medical care, treatment
and services, as required by the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
26. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C practiced
medicine at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, located at 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville
Centre, NY 11570.
27. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C was an
employee, agent and/or servant of defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
28. That at all times relevant herein, Defeñdant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C was a
Physician Assistant who performed services for Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
29. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C provided
medical treatment and services to Plaintiff's decedeñt, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, on behalf of
Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
30. That at all times relevant herein, defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
provided and/or appointed Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C to administer medical treatment
and services to Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
31. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was
vicariously and/or ostensibly liable for the negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendant KINGA
32. That at all times relevant herein, Defeñdañt PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. was and
represented himself to be a physician duly licensed to practice medicine in the State of New
33. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. held
himself out to the public as possessing the proper degree of learning and skill ñêcessary to render
medical services in accordance with good and accepted standards of medical practice.
34. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. represented
that he was cenrpetent to perform and render all medical care, treatment and services, as required
by the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
35. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. practiced
medicine at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, locãted at 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville
Centre, NY 11570.
36. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. was an
employee, agent and/or servant of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
37. That at all times relevant herein, Dcfeñdañt PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. was a
medical doctor who performed services for Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
38. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. was a
medical doctor with privileges at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
39. That at all times relevañt herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. provided
medical treatment and services to Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, on behalf of
Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
40. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
provided and/or appointed Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. to admiñister medical treatment
and services to Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
41. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was
vicariously and/or ostensibly liable for the negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendant PAUL J.
42. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
was and represented himself to be a physician duly licensed to practice medicine in the State of
43. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
held himself out to the public as possessing the proper degree of learning and skill necessary to
render medical services in accordance with good and accepted standards of medical practice.
44. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
represented that he was competent to perform and render all medical care, treatment and
services, as required by the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
45. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
practiced medicine at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, located at 1000 North Village Avenue,
Rockville Centre, NY 11570.
46. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
was an employee, agent and/or servant of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
47. That at all times rciciant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
was a medical doctor who performed services for Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
48. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
was a medical doctor with privileges at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
49. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
provided medical treatment and services to Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SA1NT SURIN, on
behalf of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
50. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
provided and/or appointed Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D. to administer medical
treatment and services to Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
51. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was
vicariously and/or ostensibly liable for the negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendant
AS AND FOR A FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION
52. Plaintiff repeats, reiterates, and realleges each and every allegation contaiñed in
the previous paragraphs of this Complaiñt, as though more fully set forth herein at length.
53. That during a course of treatment commêñcing May 9, 2019 and continuing to
and including May 10, 2019, Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, came under the
medical care and treatment of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, Defendant
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C, Defendant PAUL J.
KUBIAK, M.D. and Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D. at Defendant MERCY
MEDICAL CENTER's hospital, located at 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville Centre, New
54. That each of the Defendants undertook the obligation of rendering medical care
services and treatment to the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
55. That each of the Defendsts had a duty to treat Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH
SAINT SURIN, in accordance with the stedards of such care and treatment generally accepted
in the community and to use, in their care and treatment of him, approved methods in.general use
as well as reasonable care and professional skill.
56. That during Plaintiff's decedent JOSEPH SAINT SURIN's aforementioned
course of treatment, including on May 10, 2019, the Defendants disregarded their affirmative
duties owed to Plaintiff's decedéñt, by causing, suffering, permitting and allowing Plaintiff's
decedent to sustain serious injuries that led to his painful death.
57. That during Plaintiff's decedent JOSEPH SAINT SURIN's aforementioned
course of treatment, including on May 10, 2019, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, by
and through its agents, servants and/or employees, including non-employee physicians and
nurses who were assigned / appointed to provide care and treatment to Plaintiff's decedent,
and/or Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., and/or Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C,
and/or Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and/or Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.,
rendered medical care to the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, in a negligent,
reckless and careless maññcr, not in accordance and conformity with good and accepted medical
practice and procedure, and committed medical and/or nursing malpractice.
58. That the Defendants were negligent in the maññêr in which they treated the
Plaintiff's decedent, which includes, inter alia, their failure to properly and timely diagnose
JOSEPH SAINT SURIN's post-operative development of pulmonary embolism; in
misdiagnosing the Plaintiff's decedent; in failing to properly follow the differential diagñ0sis
process; in failing to perform proper and timely diagnostic testing including bedside
echocardiogram; in failing to properly and timely treat pulmonary embolism; in failing to timely
order and administer thrombolytic / fibrinolytic therapy; in delaying proper and necessary
treatment to Plaintiff's decedent; and the Defendants were otherwise negligent and departed from
good and accepted stãñdards of medical practice and/or conunitied medical and/or nursing
59. As a result of the negligence, carelessness and recklessñess of the Defendants,
the Plaintiff's decedent was deprived of a substantial possibility of surviving pulmonary
60. As a result of the negligence, carelessness and recklessness of the Defendants,
the Plaintiff's decedent was caused to sustain severe personal injuries, was caused to suffer pain,
mental anguish, emotional distress, fear of impending death and a painful dying process leading
to his death on May 10, 2019.
61. That the foregoing was caused solely and wholly through and by reason of the
negligence, carelessness, and recklessness of the Defendants.
62. That pursuant to CPLR §l603, the foregoing cause of action is exempt from the
operation of CPLR §1601 by reason of one or more of the exemptions provided in CPLR §1602,
including, but not limited to CPLR §1602(7), in that the defeñdsñts acted with reckless disregard
for the safety of others.
63. Plaintiff also relies upon the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur but reserves the right to
prove that the Defendants were negligent as herein set forth.
64. That as a result of the foregoing the Plaintiff was damaged in an amount greater
than the jurisdiction of all lower courts.
AS AND FOR A SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
65. Plaintiff repeats, reiterates, and realleges each and every allegation contained in
the previous paragraphs of this Complaint, as though more fully set forth herein at length.
66. That by reason of the aforesaid failures of the Defendants MERCY MEDICAL
and/or ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D., to provide proper medical care and treatment to
Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SUR1N, he was caused to suffer serious injuries, which
ultimately led to his wrongful death on May 10, 2019.
67. That Plaintiff's decedeñt died leaving behind distributees, including the Plaintiff
herein, MARIE J. SAINT SURIN, who suffered pecuñiary loss as a result of decedent's
68. Solely by reason of the foregoing, Plaintiff MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as
Administrator of the Estate of JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, is entitled to recover compcñsatory
damages in an amount exceeding the jurisdictional limits of all lower Courts which would
otherwise have jurisdiction.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiffs demand judgment against the Defendants, on all causes of
action, in a sum that exceeds the jurisdictional limits of all lower Courts, which would otherwise
have jurisdiction, together with the costs and disbursements of this action.
Dated: New York, New York
Attorneys for Plaintiff
111 John Street, Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO.
Plaintiff, ATTORNEY'S
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
BEN BARTOLOTTA, an attorney duly admitted to practice law in the State of New
York, makes the following affirmation under the penalty of perjury:
I am of the firm of BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY, LLP, the
attorneys of record for the plaintiff.
I have read the foregoing Complaint and know the contents thereof; the same is true to
my own knowledge except as to the matters therein stated to be alleged on information and belief
and that as to those matters, I believe them to be true.
This verification is made by affirmant and not by plaintiff because she is not in the
County of New York, which is the County where your affirmant maintains offices.
The grounds of affirmant's belief as to all matters not stated upon affirmant's knowledge
are correspondence had with the said plaintiff, information contained in the said plaintiffs file,
which is in affirmant's possession, and other pertinent data relating thereto.
Dated: New York, New York
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO.
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
Ben Bartolotta, an attorney admitted to practice in the State of New York, affirms the
following under the penalties of perjury:
1. That I am an associate of the law firm of BAMUNDO ZWAL
SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY, LLP, the attorneys of record for the plaintiff, and as such am
thoroughly conversant with the facts and circumstances herein based upon the contents of the file
maintained by this office.
2. That your affirmant has reviewed the facts of this case and has consulted with at
least one physician who is duly licensed in his/her profession in one of the States of the United
States of America whom your affirmant reasonably believes is knowledgeable with respect to the
relevant issues involved in this particular action.
3. Your affirmant has concluded on the basis of such review and consultation that
there is a reasonable basis for the commencement of this action.
Dated: New York, New York
On the Date Written Below LETTERS are Granted by the Surrogate's Court, State of New York as follows:
Name of Decedent: Joseph Saint Surin Date of Death: May 10, 2019
AKA Joseph Saintsurin
Domicile of Decedent: Queens County
Fiduciary Appointed: Marie J. Saint Surin
Mailing Address 104-04 218th Place
Queens Village NY 11429
Letters Issued: LIMITED LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION
Lithitations: The fiduciary Is prohibited and restrained fro compromising any cause of
action or enforcing anyJudgment recovered thereon WITHOUT FURTHER ORDER OF THIS COURT. The
Decree entered authorizes the collection of a total of $ 0.00 and interest. The collection in excess of
that amount must be authorized by a further Order of the Surrogate.
THESE LETTERS, granted pursuant to a decree entered by the court, authorize and empower the
above-named fiduciary or fiduciaries to perform all acts requisite to the proper administration and
dispos!tion of the estate/trust of the Decedent in acccidance with the decree and the laws of New York
State, subject to the limitations and restrictions, if any, as set forth above.
Dated: September 3, 2020 IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the seal of the
Queens County Surrogate's Court has been affixed.
WITNESS, Hon Peter J Kelly, Judge of the Queens
County Surrognte's Court.
Ja es Lim Becker, Chief Clerk
These Letters are Not Valid Without the Raised Seal ofthe Queens County Surrogate's Court
Bamundo Zwal & Schermerhorn LLP
111 John Street Sulte 1100
New York NY 10038
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF QUEENS Index No.
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of JOSEPH SAINT SURIN,
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL
J. KUBIAK, M.D. and ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
SUMMONS and VERIFIED COMPLAINT
Attorneys for Plaintiff
Office and Post Office Address and Telephone
111 John Street, Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
---

Now write the case summary:
<|end|>
<|assistant|>

[09:48:02.074] [OLLAMA GENERATE] ===== ORIGINAL PROMPT END =====
[09:48:02.074] [OLLAMA GENERATE] ===== WRAPPED PROMPT START =====
[09:48:02.074] <|system|>
You are a legal document summarizer assisting a court reporter. Your CRITICAL task is to synthesize information from MULTIPLE legal documents into ONE unified case summary. Do not analyze documents separately - combine them into a single coherent narrative.
<|end|>
<|user|>
IMPORTANT: You are reviewing MULTIPLE legal documents from the SAME case. Synthesize them into ONE comprehensive summary.

TARGET: 240 words (220 to 260 word range)

DOCUMENT SYNTHESIS INSTRUCTIONS:
1. Read ALL documents together as ONE case file
2. Extract the core case information: parties, claims, damages, procedures, timeline, defendants' responses
3. Create ONE flowing narrative that integrates information from all documents
4. Do NOT analyze or summarize documents individually
5. Do NOT repeat information - mention each fact once
6. Do NOT use document titles or headers in your output

CASE FACTS TO CAPTURE:
- Plaintiff name(s) and defendant name(s)
- What happened (factual events, injuries, procedures, medical treatment)
- When it happened (dates, timeline)
- Where it happened (locations)
- Damage amounts (monetary claims, medical expenses, lost wages)
- Procedural status (what stage the case is in)
- Defendant's position/response to allegations

TONE & STYLE:
- Clear, plain English suitable for a court record
- Objective facts only - no legal analysis, speculation, or interpretation
- Active voice preferred ("The plaintiff underwent surgery" not "Surgery was undergone")
- Chronological order when possible
- NO meta-commentary like "The document states..." or "According to..."

CASE DOCUMENTS (synthesize these into one summary):
---


--- 717599_2020_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_v_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_BILL_OF_PARTICULARS_10.pdf ---
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO. 717599/2020
Plaintiff, VERIFIED BILL OF
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D., and
Plaintiff, by her attorneys, BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY,
LLP, in response to the Demand for a Verified Bill of Particulars served by Defendant,
ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D., alleges, upon information and belief:
1. The negligent acts and omissions constituting medical malpractice occurred
during a continuous course of treatment commencing on or about May 9, 2019 and continuing
through May 10, 2019.
2. Mercy Medical Center, 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville Centre, NY
3. The acts and omissions of the Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
constituting medical malpractice, while Plaintiff’s decedent JOSEPH SAINT SURIN was a
patient at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER during a course of treatment commencing on or about
May 9, 2019 and continuing through May 10, 2019, include the Defendant having failed,
neglected, and omitted to render proper and acceptable medical care to the Plaintiff’s decedent in
accordance with the standards of medical care in the community at that time; the Defendant
breached, violated and disregarded his affirmative duty owed to Plaintiff’s decedent, by failing to
properly and timely diagnose and/or treat Plaintiff’s decedent’s medical conditions, including
pulmonary embolism, leading to his wrongful death; in failing to exercise all care reasonably
necessary and appropriate to prevent Plaintiff’s decedent’s death; in failing to provide necessary
treatment and services to prevent Plaintiff’s decedent’s death; in failing to properly assess the
Plaintiff’s decedent prior to performing emergent intubation on May 10, 2019; in failing to
properly assess the Plaintiff’s decedent for pulmonary embolism (“PE”) prior to performing
emergent intubation on May 10, 2019; in failing to employ proper procedures to minimize the
risk of complications to the Plaintiff’s decedent; in delaying proper treatment to the Plaintiff’s
decedent; in employing treatment, which the Defendant should have known would be ineffectual,
thereby worsening the Plaintiff’s decedent’s condition; in improperly diagnosing Plaintiff’s
decedent with stroke on May 10, 2019; in improperly relying on an incorrect diagnosis of stroke;
in failing to properly follow the differential diagnosis process following Plaintiff’s decedent’s
syncope / sudden loss of consciousness on May 10, 2019; in failing to consider acute PE as the
reason for Plaintiff’s decedent’s syncope / sudden loss of consciousness and his subsequent
condition on May 10, 2019; in improperly ruling out acute PE; in failing to timely diagnose PE;
in failing to properly rule out PE; in failing to perform proper and timely diagnostic testing
including bedside transthoracic echocardiography or bedside ultrasound to rule out or confirm
PE; in failing to request proper and timely diagnostic testing including bedside transthoracic
echocardiography or bedside ultrasound to rule out or confirm PE, prior to performing emergent
intubation on May 10, 2019; in improperly administering propofol to Plaintiff’s decedent; in
improperly intubating Plaintiff’s decedent on May 10, 2019; in improperly causing an increase in
Plaintiff’s decedent’s airway pressure / intrathoracic pressure on May 10, 2019; in causing postintubation decompensation; in causing cardiac arrest; in failing to administer oxygen via nasal
cannula or alternative methods instead of intubating Plaintiff’s decedent on May 10, 2019; in
failing to ensure proper and timely treatment of pulmonary embolism; in failing to provide
necessary treatment for acute PE; in failing to timely request and/or order and administer
thrombolytic therapy; in failing to request and/or order and administer systemic thrombolysis; in
failing to request and/or order and administer tPA / alteplase; in failing to timely request
and/order and administer heparin; in depriving Plaintiff’s decedent of the opportunity to survive
acute PE; in causing Plaintiff’s decedent’s wrongful death.
4. Defendant, ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
5-9. These demands are objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See,
Toth v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358
10. Plaintiff’s decedent suffered the following serious personal injuries:
Plaintiff’s decedent’s spouse (the plaintiff herein) and decedent’s five adult
children suffered pecuniary loss including loss of services and loss of guidance, as a result of his
11. (a-c) Plaintiff’s decedent was confined to hospital and bed during his admission
to Defendant’s facility.
12. Plaintiff incurred the following special damages:
(a-d) All physician’s services, medical services, nurses’ services, medical
supplies, hospital expenses, and medications were covered by Medicare and/or Medicaid.
Plaintiff intends to claim as economic damages any relevant expenditures claimed as a “lien” by
Medicaid and / or Medicare. Plaintiff will supplement this Bill of Particulars to reflect such
amounts if and when obtained;
(e) Loss of earning – not applicable;
(f) Other damages – to be provided, if applicable.
Plaintiff reserves the right to prove additional special damages at the time of the trial of
this action in the event these costs are continuing.
13. Not applicable. Plaintiff’s decedent was retired.
15. Plaintiff’s decedent’s date of birth: ██/██/1952.
16. Plaintiff’s decedent’s social security number: ███-██-7709.
17. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
18. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
Dated: New York, New York
December 15, 2020
Attorneys for Plaintiff
111 John Street, Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
Attorneys for Defendants
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530
Attorneys for Defendant
One Whitehall Street, 10th Floor
New York, New York 10004
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO. 717599/2020
Plaintiff, ATTORNEY'S
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D., and
BEN BARTOLOTTA, an attorney duly admitted to practice law in the State of New
York, makes the following affirmation under the penalty of perjury:
I am of the firm of BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY, LLP, the
attorneys of record for the plaintiff.
I have read the foregoing Bill of Particulars and know the contents thereof; the same is
true to my own knowledge except as to the matters therein stated to be alleged on information
and belief and that as to those matters, I believe them to be true.
This verification is made by affirmant and not by plaintiff because she is not in the
County of New York, which is the County where your affirmant maintains offices.
The grounds of affirmant's belief as to all matters not stated upon affirmant's knowledge
are correspondence had with the said plaintiff, information contained in the said plaintiff's file,
which is in affirmant's possession, and other pertinent data relating thereto.
Dated: New York, New York
December 15, 2020

--- 717599_2020_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_v_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_BILL_OF_PARTICULARS_9.pdf ---
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO. 717599/2020
Plaintiff, VERIFIED BILL OF
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D., and
Plaintiff, by her attorneys, BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY,
LLP, in response to the Demand for a Verified Bill of Particulars served by Defendants,
MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., and KINGA RAMOS,
P.A.-C, alleges, upon information and belief:
1. (a-c) Plaintiff resides at 104-04 218th Place, Queens Village, New York.
2. Admission: May 9, 2019
Discharge (date of death of Plaintiff’s decedent): May 10, 2019.
3. Plaintiff’s decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, was initially admitted to MERCY
MEDICAL CENTER on May 9, 2019, for a scheduled left knee replacement surgery.
Following the surgery, on May 10, 2019, Plaintiff’s decedent fainted or otherwise lost
consciousness during an OT session. The Defendants then undertook the treatment of the
condition that caused the sudden collapse.
4. The negligent acts and omissions of the Defendants MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C constituting medical
malpractice while Plaintiff’s decedent JOSEPH SAINT SURIN was a patient at MERCY
MEDICAL CENTER during a course of treatment commencing on or about May 9, 2019 and
continuing through May 10, 2019, include the Defendants and/or their agents, servants and/or
employees, including non-employee medical personnel appointed to the care of Plaintiff’s
decedent, having failed, neglected, and omitted to render proper and acceptable medical care to
the Plaintiff’s decedent in accordance with the standards of medical care in the community at
that time; the Defendants breached, violated and disregarded their affirmative duty owed to
Plaintiff’s decedent, by failing to properly and timely diagnose and/or treat Plaintiff’s decedent’s
medical conditions, including pulmonary embolism, leading to his wrongful death; in failing to
exercise all care reasonably necessary and appropriate to prevent Plaintiff’s decedent’s death; in
failing to provide necessary treatment and services to prevent Plaintiff’s decedent’s death; in
failing to properly assess the Plaintiff’s decedent following knee replacement surgery conducted
on May 9, 2019; in failing to properly assess the Plaintiff’s decedent risk for deep vein
thrombosis (“DVT”) and / or pulmonary embolism (“PE”), following knee replacement surgery
on May 9, 2019; in failing to employ proper procedures to minimize the risk of complications to
the Plaintiff’s decedent; in failing to order and administer proper anticoagulant prophylaxis to
prevent the development of DVT following knee replacement surgery; in delaying proper
treatment to the Plaintiff’s decedent; in employing treatment, which the Defendants should have
known would be ineffectual, thereby worsening the Plaintiff’s decedent’s condition; in failing to
exercise all care reasonably necessary and appropriate to prevent DVT and/or acute PE; in failing
to provide necessary treatment and services to prevent DVT and/or acute PE; in failing to
develop a comprehensive care plan with appropriate and timely interventions to prevent DVT
and/or acute PE; in failing to properly and adequately implement interventions necessary for the
prevention of DVT and/or acute PE; in causing or allowing DVT and/or acute PE to develop
after Plaintiff’s decedent’s knee replacement surgery; in failing to properly monitor Plaintiff’s
decedent following his surgery; in failing to provide proper and appropriate post-surgical
medical care; in failing to ensure that Plaintiff’s decedent was receiving proper and appropriate
post-surgical medical care; in improperly diagnosing Plaintiff’s decedent with stroke on May 10,
2019; in improperly initiating stroke code following Plaintiff’s decedent’s syncope / sudden loss
of consciousness on May 10, 2019; in failing to properly follow the differential diagnosis process
following Plaintiff’s decedent’s syncope / sudden loss of consciousness on May 10, 2019; in
failing to consider acute PE as the reason for Plaintiff’s decedent’s syncope / sudden loss of
consciousness during his OT session and his subsequent condition on May 10, 2019; in
improperly ruling out acute PE; in failing to properly rule out PE; in failing to perform proper
and timely diagnostic testing including bedside transthoracic echocardiography or bedside
ultrasound to rule out or confirm PE; in improperly administering propofol to Plaintiff’s
decedent; in improperly intubating Plaintiff’s decedent on May 10, 2019; in improperly causing
an increase in Plaintiff’s decedent’s airway pressure / intrathoracic pressure on May 10, 2019; in
causing post-intubation decompensation; in causing cardiac arrest; in failing to administer
oxygen via nasal cannula or alternative methods instead of intubating Plaintiff’s decedent on
May 10, 2019; in failing to properly and timely treat acute PE; in failing to provide necessary
treatment for acute PE; in failing to timely order and administer thrombolytic therapy; in failing
to order and administer systemic thrombolysis; in failing to order and administer tPA / alteplase;
in failing to timely order and administer heparin; in depriving Plaintiff’s decedent of the
opportunity to survive acute PE; in causing Plaintiff’s decedent’s wrongful death; in failing to
create and maintain accurate medical records.
5. Defendant’s negligent acts / omissions occurred on May 10, 2019, between
approximately 1:35 p.m. or earlier, and the time of death, 3:06 p.m. (with the exception of the
allegations regarding Defendants’ failures to properly assess Plaintiff’s decedent and to properly
prevent DVT and/or PE).
6. Mercy Medical Center, 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville Centre, NY
7. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
537 (2nd Dept. 1974). Without waving this objection, Defendant Mercy Medical Center is
vicariously liable for the malpractice / negligent acts/omissions of all nursing staff and medical
personnel, including non-employee physicians, who were assigned/appointed by Defendant
Mercy Medical Center to participate in the care and treatment of Plaintiff’s decedent.
Defendant physicians are vicariously liable for the malpractice / negligent acts/omissions of
physician assistants who were acting under the physicians’ guidance and supervision.
8. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
9. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
10. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
11. Plaintiff’s decedent suffered the following serious personal injuries:
Plaintiff’s decedent’s spouse (the plaintiff herein) and decedent’s five adult
children suffered pecuniary loss including loss of services and loss of guidance, as a result of his
12. All of the above injuries were permanent and contributed to Plaintiff’s decedent’s
13. Plaintiff’s decedent was confined to hospital and bed during his admission to
Defendant’s facility.
14. Plaintiff incurred the following special damages:
(a-d) All physician’s services, medical services, nurses’ services, medical
supplies, hospital expenses, and medications were covered by Medicare and/or Medicaid.
Plaintiff intends to claim as economic damages any relevant expenditures claimed as a “lien” by
Medicaid and / or Medicare or any other applicable collateral source. Plaintiff will supplement
this Bill of Particulars to reflect such amounts if and when obtained;
(e) Loss of earning – not applicable;
(f) Maid’s services – none;
(g) Other damages – to be provided, if applicable.
Plaintiff reserves the right to prove additional special damages at the time of the trial of
this action in the event these costs are continuing.
15. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars.
16. Not applicable. Plaintiff’s decedent was retired.
18. Not applicable.
19. Plaintiff’s decedent’s date of birth: ██/██/1952.
20. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
21. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
22. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. See, Toth
v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory Memorial, 358 N.Y.S.2d
537 (2nd Dept. 1974). Without waiver, Plaintiff will request that the Court take judicial notice
of the applicable law, ordinances, statutes and common law claimed to have been violated by the
defendants. Plaintiff claims violation by the defendants of each and every applicable law,
statute, rule, regulation and/or ordinance in force and effect at the time of the occurrence
complained of in the Complaint, and every subsection thereof.
23. Not applicable.
24. through 43. Each of these demands are objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of
Particulars. See, Toth v. Bloshinsky, 835 N.Y.S.2d 301 (2nd Dept. 2007); Cirelli v. Victory
44. See paragraph 14, above.
45. Plaintiff’s decedent was 67 years old at the time of his death.
46. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars. Without
waiver: Plaintiff’s decedent’s spouse is the plaintiff herein, Marie J. Saint Surin. Plaintiff’s
decedent’s children: Jephthe Saint Surin; Markenson Saint Surin; Gamael Saint Surin;
Constanio Saint Surin; Kervens Saint Surin.
47. Plaintiff’s decedent was retired.
48. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars.
49. Funeral expenses: $7,900.00.
51. This demand is objected to as beyond the scope of a Bill of Particulars.
52. See paragraph 11, above.
Dated: New York, New York
December 15, 2020
Attorneys for Plaintiff
111 John Street, Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
Attorneys for Defendants
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530
Attorneys for Defendant
One Whitehall Street, 10th Floor
New York, New York 10004
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO. 717599/2020
Plaintiff, ATTORNEY'S
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D., and
BEN BARTOLOTTA, an attorney duly admitted to practice law in the State of New
York, makes the following affirmation under the penalty of perjury:
I am of the firm of BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY, LLP, the
attorneys of record for the plaintiff.
I have read the foregoing Bill of Particulars and know the contents thereof; the same is
true to my own knowledge except as to the matters therein stated to be alleged on information
and belief and that as to those matters, I believe them to be true.
This verification is made by affirmant and not by plaintiff because she is not in the
County of New York, which is the County where your affirmant maintains offices.
The grounds of affirmant's belief as to all matters not stated upon affirmant's knowledge
are correspondence had with the said plaintiff, information contained in the said plaintiff's file,
which is in affirmant's possession, and other pertinent data relating thereto.
Dated: New York, New York
December 15, 2020

--- 717599_2020_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_v_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_ANSWER_7.pdf ---
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
VERIFIED ANSWER
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
The defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS,
P.A.-C, by their attorneys, MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, answering the complaint
of the plaintiff, herein, respectfully show to this Court and allege:
ANSWERING THE ALLEGED GENERAL ALLEGATIONS
FIRST. Defendants deny that they have any knowledge or information thereof sufficient to form a
belief as to the truth ofeach and every allegation contained in paragraphs designated "1", "2", "3", "4", "33",
"34", and of the complaint herein.
SECOND. Defendants deny each and every allegation set forth in paragraphs designated "5", "35",
THIRD. Defendants deny in the form alleged each and every allegation set forth in paragraphs
designated "6", "8", "9", "10", and of the complaint herein, except defendants admit that
defendant, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, operates a hospital pursuant to New York State Law, respectfully
refers all questions of law to this Court and all questions of facts to trial therein.
FOURTH. Defendants admit each and every allegation set forth in paragraphs designated "7", "32",
and of the complaint herein.
FIFTH. Defendants deny in the form alleged each and every allegation set forth in paragraphs
defendants admit that defendant, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., rendered certain medical care and treatment
to the plaintiff s decedent, respectfully refers all questions of law to this Court and all questions of facts to
SIXTH. Defendants deny in the form alleged each and every allegation set forth in paragraphs
designated "23", "24", "25", "26", "27", "28", "29", and of the complaint herein, except defendants
admit that defendant, KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, is a duly licensed physician's assistant in the State of New
York, respectfully refers all questions of law to this Court and all questions of facts to trial therein.
DEFENSE_. THE DEFENDANTS ALLEGE:
SEVENTH. Upon information and belief, that the injury or injuries, if any, sustained by the
plaintiff s decadent at the time and place, or on the occasion referred to in the plaintiff s complaint, and
which it is alleged was the cause ofthe death/injuries of the plaintiff sdecedent were sustained or so suffered
or caused by the negligent act or acts of the plaintiff s decedent.
DEFENSE, THE DEFENDANTS. ALLEGE:
EIGHTH. Upon information and belief, in the event plaintiff recovers at time of trial against
defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C,
such recovery for non-economic loss shall not exceed defendant's equitable share determined in accordance
with the relative culpability of each person, party and/or entity, which caused or contributed to the total
liability for non-economic loss; provided that the liability ofthe defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, are found to be fifty percent or less of the total
liability of all persons, parties and/or entities liable.
DEFENSE. THE DEFENDANTS ALLEGE :
NINTH. That the plaintiff lacks capacity to maintain this lawsuit.
DEFENSE, THE DEFENDANTS ALLEGE:
TENTH. These answering defendants demand that liability, if any, be apportioned.
DEFENSE, THE DEFENDANTS ALLEGE:
ELEVENTH. With respect to any cause of action set forth in plaintiff s complaint, based upon
failure to obtain informed consent, defendant pleads each and every defense, as applicable, set forth and
provided by Public Health Law, Section 2805(d).
DEFENSE. THE DEFENDANTS ALLEGE:
TWELFTH. That whatever damages the plaintiff recovers as against these answering defendants
be reduced pursuant to General Obligations Law Section 15-108.
DEFENSE, THE DEFEllDANTS ALLEGE:
THIRTEENTH. Upon information and belief, that all or a part of plaintiffs special damages have
been paid or will be paid by collateral sources and no award should, in any event, be made for same.
WHEREFORE, defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, demand judgment dismissing the complaint ofthe plaintiffherein, with costs and
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530-7677
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 Jolm Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
Plaintiff(s), BJLL OF PARTICULARS
-againstIndex No. 717599/2020
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that we demand that you serve upon us within twenty (20) days a verified
bill of particulars setting forth in detail the following particulars:
1. State the post office address and residence of the plaintiff:
a. at the time the acts of this action arose;
b. at the time when this action was commenced;
2. State the dates of admission to and discharge from the defendant MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C.
3. State the condition(s) which it is claimed that this answering defendant undertook to treat.
4. Generally state each and every act ofnegligence, commission or omission, which plaintiff(s)
claim(s) as the basis of the alleged malpractice of the defendant MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C.
5. State the date(s) and approximate time(s) of day of each of the alleged negligent acts and/or
omissions alleged in paragraph 4.
6. State the location of each of the alleged negligent acts and/or omissions alleged against the
defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA
7. If it is claimed that the answering defendant if vicariously liable for the negligence of any
person, state the name of such person or persons.
8. A statement of each and every act and/or omission claimed to constitute the alleged
malpractice complained of with regard to that person or persons referred to in paragraph 7.
9. State the accepted medical practices, customs or standards which it is claimed were violated
by the defendant with respect to the acts and/or omissions referred to in paragraphs 4 and 7.
10. State whether any claim is made as to improper, unavailable or defective equipment, and if
so, identify the equipment and state the defective conditions.
11. State the specific injuries, illnesses or afflictions plaintiff suffered as a result of the alleged
negligence and/or malpractice of the defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C.
12. State with specificity which, if any, of the above injuries, illnesses or afflictions is of a
permanent nature, and in what respect each is claimed to be permanent.
13. State the length of time and the dates thereof plaintiff was confined to each of the following
by virtue of the acts or omissions of the answering defendant:
14. State separately the total amounts claimed by the plaintiff as special damages for each of the
a. services (with the names and addresses of all physicians and the amounts
b. services (with the names and addresses of all nurses and the amounts owed);
c. medical supplies;
d. hospital expenses, with the names and addresses of all the hospitals;
e. loss of earnings (with the names and addresses of all employers and the claimed
g. any other claimed special damages, identifying each such other special damage.
15. If loss of services is claimed, state the pecuniary loss alleged and in what respect(s) there was
a loss of services and/or consortium, and the amount claimed for medical and other expenses
as a result thereof.
a. occupation, if any, of the plaintiff;
b. name and address ofplaintiffs employer, ifself-employed, state the business address
of the plaintiff s employment and the type of business or occupation in which the
plaintiff was engaged immediately prior to the occurrence;
c. length of time, and dates thereof, and the extent on each such date plaintiff was
unable to attend to employment;
d. amount of earnings, if any, the plaintiff claims to have lost as a result of the
e. Social Security number of the plaintiff;
f. amount of money, if any, plaintiff earned during the year prior to the occurrence.
17. State whether the plaintiff has been reimbursed, indemnified, or has had payment made on
its behalf from any collateral source for the claims of economic loss.
18. If the answer to paragraph 17 is yes, state:
a. for which of such claims plaintiff has been reimbursed or indemnified, or has had
payment made on his/her behalf;
b. the amount paid on such claims and the amount to be paid in the future.
19. State the plaintiffs date of birth.
20. State the specific time(s) and place(s) plaintiff claims any disclosure was had regarding the
risks, hazards, and alternatives incidental to the treatment herein, specifying:
a. the name(s) of the person(s) said discussion(s) are alleged to have been with;
b. the name(s) of any person(s) acting on behalf of defendant MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C with whom
plaintiff claims to have received disclosure of said matters;
c. the substance of the disclosure;
d. whether plaintiff ever signed a written consent to authorize the treatment herein;
e. if the answer to (d) is yes, state the date(s) and place(s) wherein said consent(s) or
authorization(s) were signed, and the item(s) consented to or authorized herein;
f. the names of those present at the time each consent or authorization was given;
g. whether plaintiff ever gave oral consent to the authorized treatment herein; and ifthe
answer to (g) is yes, state the date(s) and place(s) wherein said oral consent was
h. if said oral consent was given, give the name(s) of those present at the time said oral
consent was given;
i. the substance of the disclosure, if any, had when said oral consent was given.
21. State what treatment was administered to plaintiff without the plaintiff giving informed
consent for said treatment and state the approximate time said treatment was administered.
22. State by article, section, division and subdivision the rules, regulations, standards, statutes
or ordinances alleged to have been violated by defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C.
23. With respect to the injuries claimed:
a. state the name, address and date(s) on which the plaintiff visited any medical
practitioner for subsequent treatment or examination.
b. state the name, address and date(s) of admission and discharge for each subsequent
hospitalization;
c. state the name, address and date(s) on which the plaintiff visited a clinic or other
institution for subsequent treatment or examination or if the plaintiff was confined
as an in-patient, state the period of confinement.
24. State the additional medical and surgical procedures that plaintiff was allegedly forced to
undergo as a result of the defendant's negligence.
25. If there are any claims of vicarious liability against the defendant hospital with respect to
negligent acts and/or omissions, state whether the same was committed by:
b. a resident physician;
d. a physician employed by the defendant hospital;
e. other employees of the defendant hospital.
26. With respect to each nurse it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or omission, state:
a. his/her name, or if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit
ready identification;
b. the alleged negligent act and/or omission alleged;
c. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) wherein the alleged negligent act and/or omission
27. With respect to residents it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or omission, state:
a. his/her name, or if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit
ready identification;
b. his/her specialty, if any;
c. the alleged negligent act and/or omission committed;
d. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) wherein the alleged negligent act and/or omission
28. With respect to each physician and/or department allegedly employed by the defendant
hospital it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or omission, state:
a. his/her name, or if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit
ready identification;
b. his/her and/or its specialty, if any;
c. whether the physician and/or department was a consultant and, if so, by whom was
called into consultation;
d. what services the physician and/or department rendered and/or performed;
e. the alleged negligent act and/or omission committed;
f. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) wherein the alleged negligent act and/or omission
29. With respect to each alleged employee of the defendant hospital, other than those specified
above, it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or omission, state:
a. his/her name, job title, position and occupation, or ifunknown, aphysical description.
of sufficient clarity to permit ready identification;
b. what services he/she rendered and/or administered to or for the plaintiff;
c. the alleged negligent act and/or omission committed;
d. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) wherein the alleged negligent act and/or omission
30. If it is claimed any nurse, resident, intern, physician employed by the defendant hospital or
any other employee(s) of the defendant hospital failed to properly carry out an order, state:
a. the name of the person who made the order;
b. the date, time and place the order was made;
c. whether the order was written or verbal, and, if in writing, the date it was entered in
the hospital records;
d. exactly how each order so claimed was improperly performed.
31. State whether it was claimed that the defendant hospital failed to properly perform and/or
interpret a test or procedure.
32. If the response to the above is yes, state:
a. the test(s) or procedure(s) the defendant hospital failed to properly perform and/or
b. by whom each test and/or procedure was ordered;
c. the date of each test and/or procedure ordered;
d. the person's name who performed and/or interpreted the test(s) and/or procedure(s)
in question, or if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit
ready identification;
e. the date(s), time(s) and location(s) each such test and/or procedure was improperly
performed and/or interpreted;
f. exactly how each test and/or procedure was improperly performed and/or interpreted.
33. If it is alleged that the defendant improperly performed a surgical procedure that was contraindicated and/or unnecessary, set forth:
a. the name of each surgical procedure performed and the date it was performed;
b. the surgical procedure which it is claimed is contra-indicated and/or unnecessary;
c. in what manner the aforesaid surgical procedure was contra-indicated;
d. in what manner the aforesaid surgical procedure was improperly performed;
e. in what manner the aforesaid surgical procedure should have been performed.
34. If the plaintiff claims that the defendant ignored or improperly interpreted complaints, signs,
symptoms or conditions; made an erroneous diagnosis; failed to make a proper diagnosis;
improperly treated the plaintiff; administered improper, inappropriate and/or contra-indicated
drugs; administered proper drugs in incorrect dosages; failed to make proper tests;
improperly took or administered tests; failed to perform a proper physical examination, set
a. the complaints, signs, symptoms or conditions that defendant failed to interpret
b. the proper interpretation, which plaintiff claims should have been reached or made;
c. in what respect the diagnosis was erroneous and incorrect;
d. the claimed proper diagnosis;
e. the improper treatment which it is alleged was rendered;
f. the treatment which it is claimed by plaintiff should have been rendered;
g. the generic and trade name of each and every improper and/or contra-indicated drug
which was administered or prescribed;
h. the name of each proper drug allegedly administered incorrectly or in incorrect
i. the manner in which it is alleged each such drug should have been administered
and/or the correct dosage thereof;
j. the name and/or description of each and every test defendant failed to take or
k. the name of each and every test the defendant improperly took or administered;
1. the manner in which it is claimed each such test should have been administered or
m. a description of the physical examination performed and the mañnct in which it is
claimed such physical examination should have been performed.
35. With respect to each agent, servant, employee, it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or
omission, state:
a. His/her name, or if unknown, aphysical description with sufficient clarity to permit ready
b. the alleged negligent act and/or omission;
c. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) where the alleged negligent act and/or omission was
36. With respect to each physician and/or department allegedly employed by the defendant
hospital it is claimed committed a negligent act and/or omission, state:
a. his/her name, or if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit ready
b. his/her specialty, if any;
c. whether the physician and/or the department was a consultant, and if so, by whom was
called into consultation;
d. what services the physician and/or department rendered and/or performed;
e. the alleged negligent act and/or omission committed;
f. the date(s), time(s) and place(s) wherein alleged negligent act and/or omission was
37. If it is claimed any nurse, resident, intern, physician employed by the defendant hospital or
any other employees of the defendant hospital failed to properly carry out an order, state:
a. name of person who made the order;
b. date, time and place order was made;
c. how each order so claimed was improperly performed.
38. State whether it is claimed that the defendant hospital failed to properly perform and/or
interpret a test or procedure.
39. If the response to the above is yes, state:
a. the test(s) or procedure(s) the defendant hospital failed to properly perform and/or
b. the person's name who performed and/or interpreted the test(s) and/or procedure(s), or
if unknown, a physical description with sufficient clarity to permit ready identification;
c. the date(s), time(s) and location(s) each such test and/or procedure was improperly
performed and/or interpreted.
40. State the manner in which the defendant hospital failed to investigate residents, nurses and
others involved in plaintiff's decedent's care prior to granting or renewing privileges or
41. State the names of those individuals who were not investigated prior to granting privileges
42. State the manner in which the defendant hospital failed to make sufficient inquiries of the
physicians, nurses and/or employees and institutions which had information relevant to the
capacity, competence and ability of said persons rendering treatment.
43. State whether plaintiff was reimbursed by his/her employer or from another source for any
part of his/her lost earnings, and state the source, the amount, and state whether plaintiff is
legally obligated to repay the same if he/she had recovered herein.
44. State whether any items claimed as special damages were paid by collateral sources, and if
so, state which, the amount so paid, the source and whether plaintiff is obligated to repay
same, and, further, if any claim has been made but not yet honored for the reimbursement
from any collateral source, set forth the name of the collateral source and the amount or
reimbursement claimed. If the collateral source is an insurance company, set forth the policy
number under which said claim was paid or made, as well as the name and address of the
45. The age of the deceased at the time of his/her death.
46. The names, addresses and ages of the next of kin who claimed to have been damaged by the
death, and how related to the deceased.
47. The occupation of the deceased, just prior to his/her death, giving the name and address of
his/her employer.
48. The monthly income of the deceased, giving the amount received by each of the next of kin.
49. An itemized statement of all funeral expenses.
50. The date of death of the deceased.
51. Any other income the deceased was receiving prior to his/her death.
52. State and set forth the injuries sustained by the deceased allegedly causing and resulting in
AND PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE that in the event of the plaintiff sfailure to comply with
the foregoing demand within twenty (20) days, the defendant will move to preclude the offering of any
evidence as to matters herein demanded.
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 John Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
NOTICE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT in light of the current international epidemic arising from the COVID-19
virus, and in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, our office is working remotely. Due to widespread
office closures, Court closures, other official closures, remote work and/or other procedures and protocols
enacted to inhibit the spread ofthe virus, this document, and all documents, cannot be served by regular mail
or otherwise. Under all current circumstances, and upon information and belief, service by email is the
optimal and safest form of service at this time. If you object, please notify us in which case we reserve all
rights to re-serve this document in compliance with all applicable laws and/or rules following the resolution
of any and all protocols enacted relating to the COVID-19 virus.
THE PARTIES TO THIS ACTION ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the document(s) to which this Notice
and Affidavit are attached is/are being served by email. The Affidavit of Service by Email follows:
AFFIDAVIT OF SERVICE BY EMAIL
JENNIFERL. BRYANT, being duly sworn, deposes and says: that deponent is not a party to this action that
she is of 18 years and upwards, and that she is employed by the offices of MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, attorneys for defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER
TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, in the above entitled action, that the office address of said
attorneys is 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, New York 11530-7677;
that on the 26th day of October, 2020, I served by email the within ANSWER WITH DEMAND FOR
VERIFIED BILL OF PARTICULARS upon the following:
TO: mez@bzslaw.com
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
NOTICE OF EXAMINATION
Plaintiff(s), BEFORE TRIAL
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
PLEASE TAKENOTICE that pursuant to CPLR3106, et seq., the defendant(s) MERCY MEDICAL
CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C will take the deposition before trial
of Plaintiff(s) MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as A dminktrator of the Estate of JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, and
All Co-Defendant, before a Notary Public at Supreme Court, Queens County, 88-11 Sutphin Boulevard,
Jamaica, New York on the 17th day of December, 2020 at 10:00 o'clock in the forenoon of that day,
That for the purpose of refreshing their recollection, the said parties are to have and produce upon
said examination, such records, books, papers, documents, correspondence and copies thereof, and other
writings and papers kept by them or in their custody or control as relate to the matters in controversy in said
action and to the dealings or transactions between the parties to said action, as alleged and set forth in the
complaint of said action.
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530-7677
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 John Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
NOTICE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT in light of the current international epidemic arising from the COVID-19
. virus, and in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, our office is working remotely. Due to widespread
office closures, Court closures, other official closures, remote work and/or other procedures and protocols
enacted to inhibit the spread of the virus, this document, and all documents, cannot be servedbyregularmail
or otherwise. Under all current circumstances, and upon information and belief, service by email is the
optimal and safest form of service at this time. If you object, please notify us in which case we reserve all
rights to re-serve this document in compliance with all applicable laws and/or rules following the resolution
of any and all protocols enacted relating to the COVID-19 virus.
THE PARTIES TO THIS ACTION ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the document(s) to which this Notice
and Affidavit are attached is/are being served by email. The Affidavit of Service by Email follows:
AFFIDAVIT OF SERVICE BY EMAIL
JENNIFER L. BRYANT, being duly sworn, deposes and says: that deponent is not a party to this action that
she is of 18 years and upwards, and that she is employed by the offices of MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, attorneys for defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER
TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, in the above entitled action, that the office address of said
attorneys is 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, New York 11530-7677;
that on the 26th day of October, 2020, I served by email the within NOTICE OF EXAMINATION
BEFORE TRIAL upon the following:
TO: mez@bzslaw.com
SUPREME C OURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
Pursuant to the applicable rules of the Civil Practice Law and Rules of the State of New York,
defendant(s) hereby demand(s) the following:
(a) Copies of the medical reports of those physicians who have previously treated or examined the
party seeking recovery. These shall include a detailed recital of the injuries and conditions as to
which testimony will be offered at the trial, and shall refer to and identify x-rays taken of plaintiff
and technicians who have treated plaintiff.
(b) Duly executed and acknowledged written authorizations permitting all parties to obtain and
make copies of all hospital records, and other health care provider(s) records, including x-rays and
reports, pertaining to the plaintiff.
APPEARANCES
A list of the attorneys who have appeared for defendants and their post office addresses and
residences in sufficient detail to permit service of papers pursuant to Rule 2103 of the Civil Practice Law
The names and addresses of all eyewitnesses to the occurrence and/or any other witnesses who can
reflect on some cause of the occurrence which is the subject matter of this action.
The original of each and every statement and/or other writing taken of or received by plaintiff(s)
and/or defendant(s) or their respective attorneys, agents or representatives, from any said plaintiff(s) and/or
defendant(s), or from any agent, servant or employee of any said plaintiff(s) and/or defendant(s).
1. Copies of all photographs and/or videos depicting the alleged negligence claimed herein.
2. Copies of all photographs and/or videos depicting the injuries alleged herein.
1. Name each person who you expect to call as an expert witness at the trial of this action.
2. Set forth in detail the qualifications of each expert witness including:
(a) undergraduate school, address and dates of attendance;
(b) medical school, address and dates of attendance;
(c) board certifications, if any, with date(s) of certification;
(d) internships, residencies, fellowships, or any other specialized training,
and date(s) of such attendance;
(e) State(s) in which expert is licensed and date(s) obtained;
(f) hospital affiliations;
(g) title of any text authored, contributed to, and/or edited by the expert,
with a citation to said text, including name of publication, volume
number, date and any other identifying matter;
(h) area of the experts specialty or expertise;
(i) annex the curriculum vitae of each expert.
3. Attach to your response a copy of the expert report received in this matter.
4. Set forth in reasonable detail the subject matter on which each expert is expected to
5. Set forth in reasonable detail the facts and opinions on which each expert is expected to
6. Set forth in reasonable detail a summary of the grounds of each expert's opinion.
1. Any and all books, records, bills, insurance applications, insurance receipts, canceled checks,
copies of checks, and any and all other records pertaining to collateral source reimbursement
received by plaintiff or on behalf of plaintiff for the special damages alleged in the instant
2. Duly executed authorizations permitting the defendant, to obtain the records of any person,
institution, facility or governmental agency which has provided, or will provide any
reimbursement for any of the special damages alleged herein, whether or not such person,
organization, facility or governmental agency has been listed in response to paragraph 1,
The defeñdâñts request a supplemental demand setting forth the total damages to which the plaintiffs
deem themselves entitled.
PLEADINGS FROM ANOTHER ACTION
1. Any Notice of Claim, claim, demand or Supplemental Claim, directed to served upon or
delivered to any government, governmental agency or entity, city or municipality, county,
village, etc., municipal or public corporation, etc. with respect to any other action or
proceeding relating to the occurrence alleged in plaintiff's complaint.
2. Any correspondence, demands or notices prepared by or on behalf of the plaintiffor received
by or on behalf of the plaintiff with respect to any claim, etc., as set forth in the preceding
3. Any summons, complaint, pleading, disclosure demand or response, bill of particulars, etc.,
prepared, served, mailed, created, etc., by or on behalf of the plaintiff herein with respect to
any athg action or proceeding relating to the occurrence alleged in the plaintiff's complaint.
4. Any summons, complaint, pleading, disclosure demand or response, bill of particulars, etc.,
received by or on behalf of the plaintiff herein with respect to any other action or proceeding
relating to the occurrence alleged in the plaintiff's complaint.
5. Any audio or video recording, notes or transcript of testimony taken from anyone at any
examination, deposition, hearing, municipal hearing or other proceeding held in respect of
any other claim, action or proceeding relating to the occurrence alleged in plaintiff's
complaint. If you claim that you do not have the written or recorded testimony, please set
forth the following:
(a) Date, time and place of the examination, etc.,
(b) Agency or municipality, etc.,
(c) Hearing officer;
(d) Reporter or recorded means utilized and who operated same;
(e) Witness name.
6. The report of any examining physician where a physical exam was conducted relating to any
claim, Notice of Claim, etc., proceeding or ath_g action relating to the occurrence alleged in
the plaintiff's complaint.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that pursuant to §3120 of the CPLR and the Court's recent holdings in
Romano v. Steelcase, Inc. 30 Misc 3d 426,907 NYS 2d 650; and Patterson v. Turner Construction
Co., 88 AD3D 617,931 NYS2d 311; you are hereby required to furnish to the undersigned
authorizations to obtain full access to and copies of all plaintiff's current and historical Facebook
and MySpace accounts for the period of one (1) year prior to the date of loss in this matter to the
(a) Authorizations shall permit the release offull and complete copies of said accounts including
by not limited to: all records; information; photos; videos; comments; messages and posting
on Facebook and MySpace accounts.
(b) Authorizations shall include the name, user name, screen name, and e-mail account used in
creating each and every MySpace and Facebook account.
OR COMPLAINTS
All documents, including but not limited to correspondence, reports, records, memoranda, etc., with
respect to the plaintiff(s) which is the subject of this litigation and which concerns the following:
(a) Any prior accident;
(b) Any Complaint made to anyone prior to the accident;
(c) Violation notices issued by governmental agency;
(d) Clearance or satisfaction of any violation notice.
1. The names and addresses of all unions belonged to by plaintiff(s) for five (5) years prior to
the accident and up the present;
2. Duly executed and acknowledged original written authorizations to allow us to obtain the
complete union records for the plaintiff from each identified in (1) above.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that pursuant to the Uniform Rules - Trial Courts, and in particular Part
202, thereof, Uniform Civil Rules for the Supreme Court and the County Court, and more specifically
§202.17, which deals withthe Exchange ofMedicalReports in Personal Injury and Wrongful DeathActions,
plaintiff is ecrepelled to provide at least Twenty (20) days prior to physical examinations of the plaintiff by
doctor(s)/expert(s), copies of the medical reports of those medical providers who have
previously treated or examined the party seeking recovery. These shall include a recital of the injuries and
conditions as to which testimony will be offered at the trial, referring to and identifying those x-ray and
reports which will be offered at trial, including a description of the injuries sustained, a
diagnosis, and prognosis. Medical reports may consist of completed medical provider,
compensation, or insurance forms that provide the information required by this paragraph.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that upon failure to comply with this demand, objection shall be made
upon trial of this action as to the offering into evidence and/or eliciting testimony as to any of the items
requested herein, which have not been disclosed.
NOTICE PURSUANT TO CPLR SECTION 2103(5)
Pursuant to CPLR Section 2103(5) the office of the undersigned will not accept service of papers
by facsimile (fax) transmittal or other electronic means.
NOTICE PURSUANT TO CPLR SECTION 2103(7)
Pursuant to CPLR Section2103(7) the office ofthe undersigned will not consentto service ofpapers
by electronic means.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that these demands shall be deemed to continue during the pendency
of the action, including the trial thereof, and in the event of your failure to comply with these notices or any
part thereof, the undersigned, upon the trial of this action, will object to the testimony by any witnesses
called as to the information and documents called for pursuant to these notices and we will move to preclude
THIS NOTICE is served upon you in order to prevent any plea of surprise upon the trial of this
It is requested that the aforementioned production be made within twenty (20) days ofthe date herein
at the law offices of MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden
City, New York 11530. Inspection will be made and copying will be done at the defendant's expense and
the documents will be promptly returned after copying has been completed. The aforesaid may be complied
with by sending atrue copy of each aforementioned item to the undersigned within the time herein specified.
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 John Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
NOTICE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT in light of the current international epidemic arising from the COVID-19
virus, and in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, our office is working remotely. Due to widespread
office closures, Court closures, other official closures, remote work and/or other procedures and protocols
enacted to inhibit the spread of the virus, this document, and all documents, cannot be served by regular mail
or otherwise. Under all current circumstances, and upon information and belief, service by email is the
optimal and safest form of service at this time. If you object, please notify us in which case we reserve all
rights to re-serve this document in compliance with all applicable laws and/or rules following the resolution
of any and all protocols enacted relating to the COVID-19 virus.
THE PARTIES TO THIS ACTION ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the document(s) to which this Notice
and Affidavit are attached is/are being served by email. The Affidavit of Service by Email follows:
AFFIDAVIT OF SERVICE BY EMAIL
JENNIFER L. BRYANT, being duly sworn, deposes and says: that deponent is not a party to this action that
she is of 18 years and upwards, and that she is employed by the offices of MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, attorneys for defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER
TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, in the above entitled action, that the office address of said
attorneys is 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, New York 11530-7677;
that on the 26th day of October, 2020, I served by email the within COMBINED DEMANDS upon the
TO: mez@bzslaw.com
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
Plaintiff(s), RELEASE INFORMATION
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
Pursuant to the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Extension Act of 2007 (MMSEA), Public Law
Number 110-173, defendant hereby demands that plaintiff complete and execute a Social Security form
SSA-3288 (Consent to Release Information) and forward it to MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE &
SALLEY LLP, 840 Franklin Avenue, P.O. Box 7677, Garden City, New York 11530, within twenty (20)
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530-7677
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 John Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
NOTICE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT in light of the current international epidemic arising from the COVID-19
virus, and in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, our office is working remotely. Due to widespread
office closures, Court closures, other official closures, remote work and/or other procedures and protocols
enacted to inhibit the spread of the virus, this document, and all documents, cannot be served by regular mail
or otherwise. Under all current circumstances, and upon information and belief, service by email is the
optimal and safest form of service at this time. If you object, please notify us in which case we reserve all
rights to re-serve this document in compliance with all applicable laws and/or rules following the resolution
of any and all protocols enacted relating to the COVID-19 virus.
THE PARTIES TO THIS ACTION ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the document(s) to which this Notice
and Affidavit are attached is/are being served by email. The Affidavit of Service by Email follows:
AFFIDAVIT OF SERVICE BY EMAIL
JENNIFER L. BRYANT, being duly sworn, deposes and says: that deponent is not a party to this action that
she is of 18 years and upwards, and that she is employed by the offices of MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, attorneys for defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER
TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, in the above entitled action, that the office address of said
attorneys is 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, New York 11530-7677;
that on the 26th day of October, 2020, I served by email the within DEMAND FOR CONSENT TO
RELEASE INFORMATION upon the following:
TO: mcz@bzslaw.com
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
Plaintiff(s), AUTHORIZATIONS
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
FINKELSTElN, M.D.,
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that within twenty (20) days from the date hereof, you are required to
serve the undersigned with duly executed HIPAA authorizations permitting MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, or their authorized representatives, to obtain copies of the records of:
4. All treating providers per NYCRR202.17;
5. Prior treatment of the same parts of the body allegedly injured in the subject
PLEASE TAKE FURTHER NOTICE, that defendant(s) require(s) the full names and addresses of
all above-named physicians/institutions to expedite procurement of these records.
Dated: Garden City, New York
MONTFORT, HEALY, McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP
Attorneys for Defendant(s), MERCY MEDICAL CENTER,
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C
840 Franklin Avenue
Garden City, New York 11530-7677
Attorney(s) for Plaintiff(s)
111 John Street - Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
NOTICE OF SERVICE BY MAIL
PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT in light of the current international epidemic arising from the COVID-19
virus, and in an effort to stop the spread of the virus, our office is working remotely. Due to widespread
office closures, Court closures, other official closures, remote work and/or other procedures and protocols
enacted to inhibit the spread of the virus, this document, and all documents, cannot be served by regular mail
or otherwise. Under all current circumstances, and upon information and belief, service by email is the
optimal and safest form of service at this time. If you object, please notify us in which case we reserve all
rights to re-serve this document in compliance with all applicable laws and/or rules following the resolution
of any and all protocols enacted relating to the COVID-19 virus.
THE PARTIES TO THIS ACTION ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the document(s) to which this Notice
and Affidavit are attached is/are being served by email. The Affidavit of Service by Email follows:
AFFIDAVIT OF SERVICE BY EMAIL
JENNIFER L. BRYANT, being duly sworn, deposes and says: that deponent is not a party to this action that
she is of 18 years and upwards, and that she is employed by the offices of MONTFORT, HEALY,
McGUIRE & SALLEY LLP, attorneys for defendants, MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER
TELIS, M.D. and KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, in the above entitled action, that the office address of said
attorneys is 840 Franklin Avenue, Garden City, New York 11530-7677;
that on the 26th day of October, 2020, I served by email the within DEMAND FOR AUTHORIZATIONS
upon the following:
TO: mcz@bzslaw.com

--- 717599_2020_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_v_MARIE_J_SAINT_SURIN_SUMMONS___COMPLAINT_1.pdf ---
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of
Plaintiff, Plaintiff designates Queens
County as the place of trial.
-againstS U M M O N S
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and The basis ofvenue is
ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D. Plaintiffs residence:
Defendants. Queens Village, New York
To the above-named Defendants:
You are hereby summoned to answer the complaiñt in this action, and to serve a
copy of your answer, or, if the complaint is not served with this summons, to serve a notice of
appearance on the Plaintiffs attorneys within twenty days after the service of this summons,
exclusive of the day of service, where service is made by delivery upon you.personally within the
state, or, within 30 days after completion of service where service is made in any other ñ1aimer.
In case of your failure to appear or answer, judgment will be taken agaiñst you by default for the
relief demanded in the complaint.
Dated: New York, New York
Attorneys for Plaintiff
111 John Street, Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
1000 North Village Avenue
Rockville Centre, New York 11570
46 Schenck Avenue, Apt. 2E
Great Neck, New York 11021
1000 North Village Avenue
Rockville Centre, New York 11570
1000 North Village Avenue
Rockville Centre, New York 11570
South Island Orthopaedic Group
657 Central Avenue
Cedarhurst, New York 11516
1000 North Village Avenue
Rockville Centre, New York 11570
Roslyn, New York 11576
1000 North Village Avenue
Rockville Centre, New York 11570
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO.
Plaintiff, VERIFIED COMPLAINT
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
Plaintiff, MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of JOSEPH SAINT
SURIN, by her attorneys, BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY, LLP, as and
for her Complaint, alleges, upon information and belief, as follows:
1. That at all times relevant herein, Plaintiff MARIE J. SAINT SURIN is the
Administrator of the Estate of JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, deceased, by virtue of her receipt of
Limited Letters of Admiñistration from Surrogate's Court, County of Queens, dated September
3, 2020 (copy annexed).
2. That at all times relevant herein, Plaintiff MARIE J. SAINT SURIN was, and still
is, a resident of the County of Queens, City and State of New York.
3. That at all times relevant herein, Plaintiff's decedent JOSEPH SAINT SURIN was
a resident of the County of Queens, City and State of New York.
4. That the causes of action alleged herein arose in the County of Nassau, State of
5. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was a
domestic not-for-profit corporation duly organized and existing under, and by virtue of, the laws
of the State of New York.
6. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was,
and still is, a corporation or other business or legal entity doing busiñess as a hospital in the
County of Nassau, State of New York.
7. That at all times relevãñt herein, the principal place of business of Defendant
MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was, and still is, located in the County of Nassau, State of New
8. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was
still and is a hospital duly organized and ev3sting under and by virtue of the laws of the State of
New York, located at 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville Centre, New York 11570.
9. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
owned, operated, coñtrolled, and mâñãged a hospital for the care of the sick, pursuant to the laws
of the State of New York, known as MERCY MEDICAL CENTER located at 1000 North
Village Avenue, Rockville Centre, NY 11570, which provided personnel, including doctors,
nurses, attendants and others for the care and treatment of its patients and which held itself out to
the public as furñishing treatment facilities where patients, including Plaintiff's decedent,
JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, could be treated for various conditions.
10. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
employed medical care professionals, including physicians and nurses, to provide medical care to
MERCY MEDICAL CENTER patients.
11. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
held itself out to the public as being able to and qualified to care for patients, more particularly
the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, in its respective specialty of hospital care.
12. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER held
itself out to the public and more particularly to the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN,
as utilizing and employing medical personnel possessing the proper degree of Icarñiñg and skill
necessary to render medical services in accordance with good and accepted stañdards of medical
13. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. was and
represented himself to be a physician duly licensed to practice medicine in the State of New
14. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. held
himself out to the public as possessing the proper degree of learning and skill ñêcessary to render
medical services in accordance with good and accepted standards of medical practice.
15. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.
represêñted that he was competent to perform and render all medical care, treatment and
services, as required by the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
16. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.
practiced medicine at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, located at 1000 North Village Avenue,
Rockville Centre, NY 11570.
17. That at all times relevañt herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. was an
employee, agent and/or servant of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
18. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. was a
medical doctor who performed services for Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
.19. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. was a
medical doctor with privileges at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
20. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.
provided medical treatment and services to Plaintiff's dccedêñt, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, on
behalf of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
21. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
provided and/or appointed Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D. to 94miniater medical
treatment and services to Plaintiff's decedêñt, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
22. That at all times relevant herein, defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was
vicariously and/or ostensibly liable for the negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendant
23. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C was and
represented herself to be a Physician Assistant duly licensed to practice in the State of New
24. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C held herself
out to the public as possessiñg the proper degree of learning and skill necessary to render PAlevel medical services in accordance with good and accepted standards of medical practice.
25. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C
represented that she was competent to perform and render all PA-level medical care, treatment
and services, as required by the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
26. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C practiced
medicine at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, located at 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville
Centre, NY 11570.
27. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C was an
employee, agent and/or servant of defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
28. That at all times relevant herein, Defeñdant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C was a
Physician Assistant who performed services for Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
29. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C provided
medical treatment and services to Plaintiff's decedeñt, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, on behalf of
Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
30. That at all times relevant herein, defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
provided and/or appointed Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C to administer medical treatment
and services to Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
31. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was
vicariously and/or ostensibly liable for the negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendant KINGA
32. That at all times relevant herein, Defeñdañt PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. was and
represented himself to be a physician duly licensed to practice medicine in the State of New
33. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. held
himself out to the public as possessing the proper degree of learning and skill ñêcessary to render
medical services in accordance with good and accepted standards of medical practice.
34. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. represented
that he was cenrpetent to perform and render all medical care, treatment and services, as required
by the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
35. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. practiced
medicine at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, locãted at 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville
Centre, NY 11570.
36. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. was an
employee, agent and/or servant of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
37. That at all times relevant herein, Dcfeñdañt PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. was a
medical doctor who performed services for Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
38. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. was a
medical doctor with privileges at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
39. That at all times relevañt herein, Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. provided
medical treatment and services to Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, on behalf of
Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
40. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
provided and/or appointed Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. to admiñister medical treatment
and services to Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
41. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was
vicariously and/or ostensibly liable for the negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendant PAUL J.
42. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
was and represented himself to be a physician duly licensed to practice medicine in the State of
43. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
held himself out to the public as possessing the proper degree of learning and skill necessary to
render medical services in accordance with good and accepted standards of medical practice.
44. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
represented that he was competent to perform and render all medical care, treatment and
services, as required by the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
45. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
practiced medicine at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, located at 1000 North Village Avenue,
Rockville Centre, NY 11570.
46. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
was an employee, agent and/or servant of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
47. That at all times rciciant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
was a medical doctor who performed services for Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
48. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
was a medical doctor with privileges at MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
49. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
provided medical treatment and services to Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SA1NT SURIN, on
behalf of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER.
50. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER
provided and/or appointed Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D. to administer medical
treatment and services to Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
51. That at all times relevant herein, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER was
vicariously and/or ostensibly liable for the negligent acts and/or omissions of Defendant
AS AND FOR A FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION
52. Plaintiff repeats, reiterates, and realleges each and every allegation contaiñed in
the previous paragraphs of this Complaiñt, as though more fully set forth herein at length.
53. That during a course of treatment commêñcing May 9, 2019 and continuing to
and including May 10, 2019, Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, came under the
medical care and treatment of Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, Defendant
ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C, Defendant PAUL J.
KUBIAK, M.D. and Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D. at Defendant MERCY
MEDICAL CENTER's hospital, located at 1000 North Village Avenue, Rockville Centre, New
54. That each of the Defendants undertook the obligation of rendering medical care
services and treatment to the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN.
55. That each of the Defendsts had a duty to treat Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH
SAINT SURIN, in accordance with the stedards of such care and treatment generally accepted
in the community and to use, in their care and treatment of him, approved methods in.general use
as well as reasonable care and professional skill.
56. That during Plaintiff's decedent JOSEPH SAINT SURIN's aforementioned
course of treatment, including on May 10, 2019, the Defendants disregarded their affirmative
duties owed to Plaintiff's decedéñt, by causing, suffering, permitting and allowing Plaintiff's
decedent to sustain serious injuries that led to his painful death.
57. That during Plaintiff's decedent JOSEPH SAINT SURIN's aforementioned
course of treatment, including on May 10, 2019, Defendant MERCY MEDICAL CENTER, by
and through its agents, servants and/or employees, including non-employee physicians and
nurses who were assigned / appointed to provide care and treatment to Plaintiff's decedent,
and/or Defendant ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., and/or Defendant KINGA RAMOS, PA-C,
and/or Defendant PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and/or Defendant ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.,
rendered medical care to the Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, in a negligent,
reckless and careless maññcr, not in accordance and conformity with good and accepted medical
practice and procedure, and committed medical and/or nursing malpractice.
58. That the Defendants were negligent in the maññêr in which they treated the
Plaintiff's decedent, which includes, inter alia, their failure to properly and timely diagnose
JOSEPH SAINT SURIN's post-operative development of pulmonary embolism; in
misdiagnosing the Plaintiff's decedent; in failing to properly follow the differential diagñ0sis
process; in failing to perform proper and timely diagnostic testing including bedside
echocardiogram; in failing to properly and timely treat pulmonary embolism; in failing to timely
order and administer thrombolytic / fibrinolytic therapy; in delaying proper and necessary
treatment to Plaintiff's decedent; and the Defendants were otherwise negligent and departed from
good and accepted stãñdards of medical practice and/or conunitied medical and/or nursing
59. As a result of the negligence, carelessness and recklessñess of the Defendants,
the Plaintiff's decedent was deprived of a substantial possibility of surviving pulmonary
60. As a result of the negligence, carelessness and recklessness of the Defendants,
the Plaintiff's decedent was caused to sustain severe personal injuries, was caused to suffer pain,
mental anguish, emotional distress, fear of impending death and a painful dying process leading
to his death on May 10, 2019.
61. That the foregoing was caused solely and wholly through and by reason of the
negligence, carelessness, and recklessness of the Defendants.
62. That pursuant to CPLR §l603, the foregoing cause of action is exempt from the
operation of CPLR §1601 by reason of one or more of the exemptions provided in CPLR §1602,
including, but not limited to CPLR §1602(7), in that the defeñdsñts acted with reckless disregard
for the safety of others.
63. Plaintiff also relies upon the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur but reserves the right to
prove that the Defendants were negligent as herein set forth.
64. That as a result of the foregoing the Plaintiff was damaged in an amount greater
than the jurisdiction of all lower courts.
AS AND FOR A SECOND CAUSE OF ACTION
65. Plaintiff repeats, reiterates, and realleges each and every allegation contained in
the previous paragraphs of this Complaint, as though more fully set forth herein at length.
66. That by reason of the aforesaid failures of the Defendants MERCY MEDICAL
and/or ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D., to provide proper medical care and treatment to
Plaintiff's decedent, JOSEPH SAINT SUR1N, he was caused to suffer serious injuries, which
ultimately led to his wrongful death on May 10, 2019.
67. That Plaintiff's decedeñt died leaving behind distributees, including the Plaintiff
herein, MARIE J. SAINT SURIN, who suffered pecuñiary loss as a result of decedent's
68. Solely by reason of the foregoing, Plaintiff MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as
Administrator of the Estate of JOSEPH SAINT SURIN, is entitled to recover compcñsatory
damages in an amount exceeding the jurisdictional limits of all lower Courts which would
otherwise have jurisdiction.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiffs demand judgment against the Defendants, on all causes of
action, in a sum that exceeds the jurisdictional limits of all lower Courts, which would otherwise
have jurisdiction, together with the costs and disbursements of this action.
Dated: New York, New York
Attorneys for Plaintiff
111 John Street, Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO.
Plaintiff, ATTORNEY'S
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
BEN BARTOLOTTA, an attorney duly admitted to practice law in the State of New
York, makes the following affirmation under the penalty of perjury:
I am of the firm of BAMUNDO ZWAL SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY, LLP, the
attorneys of record for the plaintiff.
I have read the foregoing Complaint and know the contents thereof; the same is true to
my own knowledge except as to the matters therein stated to be alleged on information and belief
and that as to those matters, I believe them to be true.
This verification is made by affirmant and not by plaintiff because she is not in the
County of New York, which is the County where your affirmant maintains offices.
The grounds of affirmant's belief as to all matters not stated upon affirmant's knowledge
are correspondence had with the said plaintiff, information contained in the said plaintiffs file,
which is in affirmant's possession, and other pertinent data relating thereto.
Dated: New York, New York
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of INDEX NO.
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D.,
KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL J. KUBIAK, M.D. and
Ben Bartolotta, an attorney admitted to practice in the State of New York, affirms the
following under the penalties of perjury:
1. That I am an associate of the law firm of BAMUNDO ZWAL
SCHERMERHORN & CAFFREY, LLP, the attorneys of record for the plaintiff, and as such am
thoroughly conversant with the facts and circumstances herein based upon the contents of the file
maintained by this office.
2. That your affirmant has reviewed the facts of this case and has consulted with at
least one physician who is duly licensed in his/her profession in one of the States of the United
States of America whom your affirmant reasonably believes is knowledgeable with respect to the
relevant issues involved in this particular action.
3. Your affirmant has concluded on the basis of such review and consultation that
there is a reasonable basis for the commencement of this action.
Dated: New York, New York
On the Date Written Below LETTERS are Granted by the Surrogate's Court, State of New York as follows:
Name of Decedent: Joseph Saint Surin Date of Death: May 10, 2019
AKA Joseph Saintsurin
Domicile of Decedent: Queens County
Fiduciary Appointed: Marie J. Saint Surin
Mailing Address 104-04 218th Place
Queens Village NY 11429
Letters Issued: LIMITED LETTERS OF ADMINISTRATION
Lithitations: The fiduciary Is prohibited and restrained fro compromising any cause of
action or enforcing anyJudgment recovered thereon WITHOUT FURTHER ORDER OF THIS COURT. The
Decree entered authorizes the collection of a total of $ 0.00 and interest. The collection in excess of
that amount must be authorized by a further Order of the Surrogate.
THESE LETTERS, granted pursuant to a decree entered by the court, authorize and empower the
above-named fiduciary or fiduciaries to perform all acts requisite to the proper administration and
dispos!tion of the estate/trust of the Decedent in acccidance with the decree and the laws of New York
State, subject to the limitations and restrictions, if any, as set forth above.
Dated: September 3, 2020 IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, the seal of the
Queens County Surrogate's Court has been affixed.
WITNESS, Hon Peter J Kelly, Judge of the Queens
County Surrognte's Court.
Ja es Lim Becker, Chief Clerk
These Letters are Not Valid Without the Raised Seal ofthe Queens County Surrogate's Court
Bamundo Zwal & Schermerhorn LLP
111 John Street Sulte 1100
New York NY 10038
SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF QUEENS Index No.
MARIE J. SAINT SURIN as Administrator of the Estate of JOSEPH SAINT SURIN,
-againstMERCY MEDICAL CENTER, ALEXANDER TELIS, M.D., KINGA RAMOS, P.A.-C, PAUL
J. KUBIAK, M.D. and ANDREW FINKELSTEIN, M.D.
SUMMONS and VERIFIED COMPLAINT
Attorneys for Plaintiff
Office and Post Office Address and Telephone
111 John Street, Suite 1100
New York, New York 10038
---

Now write the case summary:
<|end|>
<|assistant|>

[09:48:02.082] [OLLAMA GENERATE] ===== WRAPPED PROMPT END =====
